2005 Illinois Code - Chapter 215 
Insurance 215 ILCS 158/      Viatical 
Settlements Act. 
 
(215 ILCS 158/1) 
    Sec. 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the Viatical Settlements Act. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/5) 
    Sec. 5. Definitions. As used in this Act, the following definitions apply: 
    "Director" means the Director of Insurance. 
    "Person" means any natural or artificial entity including, but not limited to, individuals, 
partnerships, associations, trusts, or corporations. 
    "Viatical settlement agent" means an individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity 
who through appointment by at least one viatical settlement provider and for a fee, 
commission, or other valuable consideration, offers or advertises the availability of viatical 
settlements, introduces viators to viatical settlement providers, or offers or attempts to 
negotiate viatical settlements between a viator and one or more viatical settlement 
providers. "Viatical settlement agent" does not include an attorney licensed to practice 
law, a public accountant as defined in the Illinois Public Accounting Act, or a person 
licensed under the Debt Management Service Act retained to represent the viator whose 
compensation is not paid by the viatical settlement provider. 
    "Viatical settlement contract" means a written agreement entered into between a viatical 
settlement provider and a person who owns a life insurance policy or who owns or is 
covered under a group policy, insuring the life of a person who has a catastrophic or life 
threatening illness or condition. The agreement shall establish the terms under which the 
viatical settlement provider will pay compensation or anything of value, which 
compensation or value is less than the expected death benefit of the insurance policy or 
certificate, in return for the policyowner's assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of 
the death benefit or ownership of the insurance policy or certificate to the viatical 
settlement provider. 

    "Viatical settlement provider" means an individual, partnership, corporation, or other 
entity that enters into an agreement with a person who owns a life insurance policy, or who 
owns or is covered under a group policy, insuring the life of a person who has a 
catastrophic or life threatening illness or condition, under the terms of which the viatical 
settlement provider pays compensation or anything of value, which compensation or value 
is less than the expected death benefit of the insurance policy or certificate, in return for 
the policyowner's assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of the death benefit or 
ownership of the insurance policy or certificate to the viatical settlement provider. "Viatical 
settlement provider" does not include: 
        (1) a licensed insurance company, bank, savings 
     
 
bank, savings and loan association, credit union, commercial finance company or other 
licensed lending institution, investment company registered under the Investment 
Company Act of 1940, pension plan qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, or trust funding such a pension plan that takes an assignment of a life 
insurance policy only as collateral for a loan; 
        (2) sophisticated investors meeting the standards of 
     
 
subsection H of Section 4 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953 who invest in or lend to a 
licensed viatical settlement provider or other persons who so invest pursuant to a 
registered security offering; or 
        (3) the issuer of a life insurance policy providing 
     
 
accelerated benefits under the Illinois Insurance Code. 
    "Viaticated policy" means a life insurance policy held by a viatical settlement provider, 
directly or indirectly, through a viatical settlement contract. 
    "Viator" means a person who owns a life insurance policy, or who owns or is covered 
under a group policy, insuring the life of a person with a catastrophic or life threatening 
illness or condition who enters into an agreement under which the viatical settlement 
provider will pay compensation or anything of value, which compensation or value is less 
than the expected death benefit of the insurance policy or certificate, in return for the 
viator's assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of the death benefit or ownership of 
the insurance policy or certificate to the viatical settlement provider. 

(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96; 90‑545, eff. 1‑1‑98.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/10) 
    Sec. 10. License requirements. 
    (a) No individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity may act as a viatical settlement 
provider without first having obtained a license from the Director. 
    (b) Application for a viatical settlement provider license shall be made to the Director by 
the applicant on a form prescribed by the Director. The application shall be accompanied 
by a fee of $3,000, which shall be deposited into the Insurance Producer Administration 
Fund. 
    (c) Viatical settlement providers' licenses may be renewed from year to year on the 
anniversary date upon (1) submission of renewal forms prescribed by the Director and (2) 
payment of the annual renewal fee of $1,500, which shall be deposited into the Insurance 
Producer Administration Fund. Failure to pay the fee within the terms prescribed by the 
Director shall result in the expiration of the license. 
    (d) Applicants for a viatical settlement provider's license shall provide such information 
as the Director may require. The Director shall have authority, at any time, to require the 
applicant to fully disclose the identity of all stockholders, partners, officers, and 
employees. The Director may, in the exercise of discretion, refuse to issue a license in the 
name of any firm, partnership, or corporation if not satisfied that an officer, employee, 
stockholder, or partner thereof who may materially influence the applicant's conduct 
meets the standards of this Act. 
    (e) A viatical settlement provider's license issued to a partnership, corporation, or other 
entity authorizes all members, officers, and designated employees to act as viatical 
settlement providers under the license. All those persons must be named in the 
application and any supplements thereto. 
    (f) Upon the filing of an application for a viatical settlement provider's license and the 
payment of the license fee, the Director shall make an investigation of the applicant and 
may issue a license if the Director finds that the applicant: 
        (1) has provided a detailed plan of operation; 
        (2) is competent and trustworthy and intends to act 
     
 
in good faith in the capacity authorized by the license applied for; 

        (3) has a good business reputation and has had 
     
 
experience, training, or education so as to be qualified in the business for which the license 
is applied for; and 
        (4) if a corporation, is a corporation incorporated 
     
 
under the laws of this State or a foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this 
State. 
    (g) The Director may not issue a license to a nonresident applicant, unless a written 
designation of an agent for service of process is filed and maintained with the Director or 
the applicant has filed with the Director the applicant's written irrevocable consent that 
any action against the applicant may be commenced against the applicant by service of 
process on the Director. 
    (h) A viatical settlement provider must assume responsibility for all actions of its 
appointed viatical settlement agents associated with a viatical settlement. 
(Source: P.A. 93‑32, eff. 7‑1‑03.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/15) 
    Sec. 15. License revocation. 
    (a) The Director has the right to suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the license of any 
viatical settlement provider if the Director finds that: 
        (1) there was any misrepresentation in the 
     
 
application for the license; 
        (2) the holder of the license has been guilty of 
     
 
fraudulent or dishonest practices, is subject to a final administrative action, or is otherwise 
shown to be untrustworthy or incompetent to act as a viatical settlement provider; 
        (3) the licensee demonstrates a pattern of 
     
 

unreasonable or untimely payments to policyowners or their designees; 
        (4) the licensee has been convicted of a felony or 
     
 
any misdemeanor of which criminal fraud is an element; or 
        (5) the licensee has violated any of the provision 
     
 
of this Act. 
    (b) Before the Director denies a license application or suspends, revokes, or refuses to 
renew the license of a viatical settlement provider, the Director shall conduct a hearing in 
accordance with the Illinois Administrative Procedure Act. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/20) 
    Sec. 20. Approval of viatical settlements contracts. No viatical settlement provider may 
use a viatical settlement contract in this State unless it has been filed with and approved by 
the Director. A viatical settlement contract form filed with the Director shall be deemed 
approved if it has not been disapproved within 60 days of the filing. The Director shall 
disapprove a viatical settlement contract form if, in the Director's opinion, the contract or 
provisions contained therein are unreasonable, contrary, to the interests of the public, or 
otherwise misleading or unfair to the policyowner. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/25) 
    Sec. 25. Reporting requirements. 
    (a) A licensee shall file with the Director on or before March 1 of each year an annual 
statement containing such information as the Director may prescribe by rule. 
    (b) A viatical settlement provider shall inform the Director in writing of a change in its 
business address within 30 days of such change. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/30) 
    Sec. 30. Examinations of applicants and licensees. 

    (a) The Director may, when the Director deems it reasonably necessary to protect the 
interests of the public, examine the business and affairs of any licensee or applicant for a 
license. The Director has the authority to order a licensee or applicant to produce any 
records, books, files, or other information reasonably necessary to ascertain whether or 
not the licensee or applicant is acting or has acted in violation of the law or otherwise 
contrary to the interests of the public. The expenses incurred in conducting an examination 
shall be paid by the licensee or applicant. 
    (b) Names and individual identification data for all viators shall be considered private and 
confidential information and shall not be disclosed by the Director, unless required by law. 
    (c) Records of all transactions of viatical settlement contracts shall be maintained by the 
licensee and shall be available to the Director for inspection during reasonable business 
hours. 
    (d) All licensees shall maintain a record of complaints received against the licensee and 
those viatical settlement agents representing the licensee. The Director may promulgate a 
rule to prescribe the minimum records that must be maintained by licensees. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/35) 
    Sec. 35. Disclosure. 
    (a) Prior to the time a viatical settlement application is taken or the time an offer is made 
by a viatical settlement provider to a person considering a viatical settlement, whichever is 
later, the following information shall be provided by the viatical settlement provider or its 
agent: 
        (1) the affiliation, if any, between the viatical 
     
 
settlement provider and the issuer of an insurance policy to be viaticated; 
        (2) if an insurance policy to be viaticated has been 
     
 
issued as a joint policy or involves family riders or any coverage of a life other than that 
insured under the policy to be viaticated, the viator must be informed of the possible loss 
of coverage on such other lives and advised to consult with his or her insurance producer 
or the company issuing the policy for advice on the proposed viatication. 

    (b) A viatical settlement provider shall disclose all of the following information to the 
viator no later than the date the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties: 
        (1) Possible alternatives to viatical settlement 
     
 
contracts for persons with catastrophic or life threatening illnesses including, but not 
limited to, accelerated benefits offered by the issuer of the life insurance policy. 
        (2) The fact that some or all of the proceeds of the 
     
 
viatical settlement may be taxable and that assistance should be sought from a personal 
tax advisor. 
        (3) The fact that the viatical settlement could be 
     
 
subject to the claims of creditors. 
        (4) The fact that receipt of a viatical settlement 
     
 
may adversely effect the recipients' eligibility for Medicaid or other government benefits or 
entitlements and that advice should be obtained from the appropriate agencies. 
        (5) The policyowner's right to rescind a viatical 
     
 
settlement contract within 30 days of the date it is executed by all parties or within 15 days 
of the receipt of the viatical settlement proceeds by the viator, whichever is less, as 
provided in subsection (c) of Section 45. 
        (6) The date by which the funds will be available to 
     
 
the viator and the source of the funds. 
        (7) A description of any policy benefits other than 
     
 

death benefits and non‑forfeiture values in the policy to be viaticated that may be of value, 
such as additional purchase benefits, waiver of premium benefits, accidental death 
benefits, or conversion features. The viatical settlement provider shall also disclose its 
interest in such benefits and any options available to the viator for additional 
compensation or contractual reservation to the viator of policy options or other rights. 
    (c) A viatical settlement agent shall disclose all of the following information to the viator 
no later than the date the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties: 
        (1) The identity of the viatical settlement agent. 
        (2) The identity of the viatical settlement provider. 
        (3) The nature of the relationship between the 
     
 
viatical settlement agent and viatical settlement provider. 
    (d) The Director may promulgate a rule to assure adequate disclosure is given to all 
potential viators. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/40) 
    Sec. 40. Assignment or resale of viaticated policies. A viatical settlement provider may 
not sell, assign, transfer, or pledge a viaticated policy except to another licensed viatical 
settlement provider or a person not required to be licensed under Section 10. An insurance 
company licensed in this State shall not accept the assignment of a life insurance policy 
from a viatical settlement provider not licensed in this State and shall immediately notify 
the Director of any such attempted transaction. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/45) 
    Sec. 45. General rules. 
    (a) A viatical settlement provider entering into a viatical settlement contract with a person 
with a catastrophic or life threatening illness or condition shall first obtain: 
        (1) a written statement from a licensed attending 
     
 

physician that the person is of sound mind and under no constraint or undue influence; 
and 
        (2) a witnessed document in which the person 
     
 
consents to the viatical settlement contract, acknowledges the catastrophic or life 
threatening illness, represents that he or she has a full and complete understanding of the 
viatical settlement contract, that he or she has a full and complete understanding of the 
benefits of the life insurance policy, releases his or her medical records, and acknowledges 
that he or she has entered into the viatical settlement contract freely and voluntarily. 
    (b) All medical information solicited or obtained by a licensee shall be subject to the 
applicable provision of State law relating to confidentiality of medical information. 
    (c) All viatical settlement contracts entered into in this State shall provide the viator with 
an unconditional right to rescind the contract for at least 30 days from the date the contract 
is executed or 15 days from the receipt of the viatical settlement proceeds, whichever is 
less. If the insured dies during such rescission periods, the contract shall be deemed to 
have been rescinded subject, however, to repayment to the viatical settlement provider of 
any viatical settlement payments. 
    (d) Immediately upon receipt from the viator of documents to effect the transfer of the 
insurance policy, the viatical settlement provider shall pay the entire proceeds of the 
settlement into an escrow or trust account managed by an escrow agent or trustee in a 
state or federally chartered financial institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve 
System pending acknowledgment of the transfer by the issuer of the policy. The trustee or 
escrow agent shall be required to transfer the proceeds due to the viator immediately upon 
receipt of acknowledgment of the transfer from the insurer. 
    (e) Failure to tender the viatical settlement by the date disclosed to the viator renders the 
contract a nullity. 
    (f) A viatical settlement agent may not receive a fee, commission, or other valuable 
consideration for his or her services involving unlicensed viatical settlement providers with 
respect to (1) viatical settlements or (2) the assignment or resale of viaticated policies. 
    (g) A viatical settlement provider may not pay a person not appointed as an agent by that 
provider any fee, commission, or other valuable consideration for his or her services with 
respect to (1) viatical settlements or (2) the assignment or resale of viaticated policies. 

    (h) A viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement agent shall not pay or offer to pay 
any referral or finder's fee, commission, or other compensation to viator's physician, 
attorney, or accountant. 
    (i) A viatical settlement agent may not receive any compensation from a prospective 
viator or a viator. 
    (j) If the viator rescinds the viatical settlement contract, the viatical settlement provider 
shall notify the issuer of the insurance policy of the recision. The notification shall be made 
by the viatical settlement provider to the issuer of the insurance policy within 20 days from 
the date the viatical settlement provider receives the recision request from the viator. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/50) 
    Sec. 50. Authority to promulgate standards. The Director shall have the authority to do all 
the following: 
    (1) Issue rules implementing this Act. 
    (2) Establish standards for evaluating reasonableness of payments under viatical 
settlement contracts. This authority includes, but is not limited to, regulation of discount 
rates used to determine the amount paid in exchange for assignment, transfer, sale, devise, 
or bequest of a benefit under a life insurance policy. 
    (3) Establish licensing requirements and fees for viatical settlement providers and viatical 
settlement agents. 
    (4) Establish standards for solicitation and disclosure including, but not limited to, 
regulation of disclosure requirements and advertising. 
    (5) Establish standards for examination of viatical settlement providers and viatical 
settlement agents. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/55) 
    Sec. 55. Application. No viatical settlement provider transacting business in this State 
may continue to do so after the effective date of this Act unless it is in compliance with this 
Act. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/95) 

    Sec. 95. (Amendatory provisions; text omitted). 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96; text omitted.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/97) 
    Sec. 97. (Amendatory provisions; text omitted). 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96; text omitted.) 
    (215 ILCS 158/99) 
    Sec. 99. Effective date. This Act takes effect upon becoming law. 
(Source: P.A. 89‑484, eff. 6‑21‑96.) 
