State of Maine: Life Settlements Statutes 
Maine Statutes → Title 24-A Maine Insurance Code → Chapter 85 – Viatical and Life 
Settlements Act 
Section 6801 - Short title 
This chapter may be known and cited as the "Viatical and Life Settlements Act." [2003, c. 636, 
§3 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6801 
Section 6802-A - Definitions 
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the following terms have the 
following meanings. [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
1.Advertising. "Advertising" means any written, electronic or printed communication or any 
communication by means of recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio, television, the 
Internet or a similar communications medium, including film strips, motion pictures and videos, 
published, disseminated, circulated or placed before the public, directly or indirectly, for the 
purpose of creating an interest in or inducing a person to sell a life insurance policy pursuant to a 
settlement contract. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
2.Business of settlements. "Business of settlements" means any activity involved in, but not 
limited to, the offering, solicitation, negotiation, procurement, effectuation, purchasing, 
financing, monitoring, tracking, underwriting, selling, transferring, assigning, pledging, 
hypothecating or in any other manner engaging in the business of settlement contracts. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
3.Chronically ill. "Chronically ill" means:A. Being unable to perform at least 2 activities of 
daily living, including, but not limited to, eating, moving from one place to another, bathing, 
dressing, voiding the bladder, eliminating the bowel or maintaining continence; [2003, c. 636, §5 
(NEW).]B. Requiring substantial supervision to protect the individual from threats to health and 
safety due to severe cognitive impairment; or [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]C. Having a level of 
disability similar to that described in paragraph A, as determined by the United States Secretary 
of Health and Human Services. [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
4.Financing entity. "Financing entity" means an underwriter, placement agent, lender, purchaser 
of securities, purchaser of a policy or certificate from a settlement provider, credit enhancer or 
any entity that has a direct ownership in a policy or certificate that is the subject of a settlement 
contract:A. Whose principal activity related to the transaction is providing funds to effect the 
settlement or purchase of one or more purchased policies or to provide credit enhancement; and 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]B. Who has an agreement in writing with one or more licensed 
settlement providers to finance the acquisition of settlement contracts or to provide stop loss 
insurance. [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
"Financing entity" does not include a nonaccredited investor. 

[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
5.Financing transaction. "Financing transaction" means any transaction in which a licensed 
settlement provider obtains financing for the purchase, acquisition, transfer or other assignment 
of one or more settlement contracts or policies acquired pursuant to a settlement contract or 
interests therein, including, without limitation, any secured or unsecured financing, securitization 
transaction or securities offering, either registered or exempt from registration under federal and 
state securities law, or otherwise sells, assigns, transfers, pledges, hypothecates or otherwise 
disposes of a settlement contract or policy acquired pursuant to a settlement contract or interest 
therein. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
6.Fraudulent viatical or life settlement act. "Fraudulent viatical or life settlement act" 
includes:A. Acts or omissions committed by any person who, knowingly or with intent to 
defraud, for the purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, commits, or 
permits its employees or its agents to engage in, acts including:(1) Presenting, causing to be 
presented or preparing with knowledge or belief that it will be presented to or by a settlement 
provider, settlement producer, financing entity, insurer, insurance producer or any other person 
false material information, or concealing material information, as part of, in support of or 
concerning a fact material to one or more of the following:(a) An application for the issuance of 
a settlement contract or insurance policy;(b) The underwriting of a settlement contract or 
insurance policy;(c) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to a settlement contract or 
insurance policy;(d) Premiums paid on an insurance policy;(e) Payments and changes in 
ownership or beneficiary made in accordance with the terms of a settlement contract or insurance 
policy;(f) The reinstatement or conversion of an insurance policy;(g) The solicitation, offer, 
effectuation or sale of a settlement contract or insurance policy;(h) The issuance of written 
evidence of a settlement contract or insurance policy; or(i) A financing 
transaction;(2) Employing any device, scheme or artifice to defraud related to policies acquired 
pursuant to a settlement contract;(3) Entering into stranger-originated life insurance; 
or(4) Failing to disclose to the insurer when requested by the insurer that the prospective insured 
has undergone a life expectancy evaluation by any person other than the insurer or its authorized 
representatives in connection with the issuance of a policy; [2007, c. 543, §1 (AMD).]B. In the 
furtherance of a fraud or to prevent the detection of a fraud committing or permitting one's 
employees or agents to:(1) Remove, conceal, alter, destroy or sequester from the superintendent 
the assets or records of a licensee or other person engaged in the business of 
settlements;(2) Misrepresent or conceal the financial condition of a licensee, financing entity, 
insurer or other person;(3) Transact the business of settlements in violation of laws requiring a 
license, certificate of authority or other legal authority for the transaction of the business of 
settlements; or(4) File with the superintendent or the chief insurance regulatory official of 
another jurisdiction a document containing false information or otherwise concealing 
information about a material fact from the superintendent; [2003, c. 636, §5 
(NEW).]C. Embezzlement, theft, misappropriation or conversion of money, funds, premiums, 
credits or other property of a settlement provider, insurer, insured, viator, insurance policyowner 
or any other person engaged in the business of settlements or insurance; [2003, c. 636, §5 
(NEW).]D. Recklessly entering into, brokering or otherwise dealing in a settlement contract, the 
subject of which is a life insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false information 

concerning any fact material to the policy or by concealing, for the purpose of misleading 
another, information concerning any fact material to the policy, when the viator or the viator's 
agent intended to defraud the policy's issuer. For the purposes of this paragraph, "recklessly" 
means engaging in conduct in consciously and clearly unjustifiable disregard of a substantial 
likelihood of the existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross 
deviation from acceptable standards of conduct; [2009, c. 376, §1 (AMD).]E. Attempting to 
commit; assisting, aiding or abetting in the commission of; or conspiring to commit the acts or 
omissions specified in this subsection; [2009, c. 376, §1 (AMD).]F. Engaging in any transaction, 
practice or course of business by a person who knows or reasonably should have known that the 
intent was to avoid the notice requirements of this chapter; [2009, c. 376, §1 (NEW).]G. With 
respect to a settlement producer, knowingly soliciting an offer from, effectuating a life settlement 
contract with or making a sale to any settlement provider, financing entity or related provider 
trust that is controlling, controlled by or under common control with the producer, unless this 
relationship is disclosed to the viator; [2009, c. 376, §1 (NEW).]H. With respect to a settlement 
provider, knowingly entering into a settlement contract if anything of value will be paid to a 
settlement producer controlling, controlled by or under common control with the provider or the 
financing entity or related provider trust that is involved in the settlement contract, unless this 
relationship is disclosed to the viator; and [2009, c. 376, §1 (NEW).]I. Any statement or 
representation to the applicant or policyholder in connection with the sale or financing of a life 
insurance policy to the effect that the insurance is free or without cost to the policyholder for any 
period of time, unless free coverage is provided in the policy in the manner described. [2009, c. 
376, §1 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §1 (AMD).] 
6-A.Life expectancy evaluation. "Life expectancy evaluation" means any evaluation of the 
number of months the insured under the life insurance policy to be settled can be expected to 
live, or of the probability that the insured will live beyond a specified date, considering medical 
records and appropriate experiential data. 
[2009, c. 376, §2 (AMD).] 
7.Policy. "Policy" means an individual or group policy, group certificate, contract or 
arrangement of life insurance affecting the rights of a resident of this State or bearing a 
reasonable relation to this State, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this 
State. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
8.Related provider trust. "Related provider trust" means a titling trust or other trust established 
by a licensed settlement provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose of holding the 
ownership or beneficial interest in purchased policies in connection with a financing transaction. 
The trust must have a written agreement with the licensed settlement provider under which the 
licensed settlement provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and 
regulatory requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files related to 
settlement transactions available to the superintendent as if those records and files were 
maintained directly by the licensed settlement provider. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 

9.Settlement contract. 
[2007, c. 543, §3 (RP).] 
9-A.Settlement contract. "Settlement contract" means an agreement between a viator and a 
settlement provider establishing the terms under which compensation or anything of value will 
be paid, which compensation or value is less than the expected death benefit of the insurance 
policy or certificate, in return for the viator's assignment, transfer, sale, devise or bequest of the 
death benefit or ownership of any portion of the insurance policy or certificate of insurance. 
"Settlement contract" includes the transfer for compensation or value of ownership or beneficial 
interest in a trust or other entity that owns such policy if the trust or other entity was formed or 
availed of for the principal purpose of acquiring one or more life insurance contracts, which life 
insurance contract insures the life of a person residing in this State. "Settlement contract" 
includes a premium finance loan made for a life insurance policy by a lender to a viator on or 
before the date of issuance of the policy when the viator or the insured receives on the date of the 
premium finance loan a guarantee of a future settlement value of the policy or when the viator or 
the insured agrees on the date of the premium finance loan to sell the policy or any portion of its 
death benefit on any date following the issuance of the policy. "Settlement contract" does not 
include:A. A policy loan or accelerated death benefit made by the insurer pursuant to the policy's 
terms; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]B. A collateral assignment of a policy by the owner of the 
policy, unless the assignee knows or reasonably expects that the owner does not intend to repay 
the loan; [2009, c. 376, §3 (AMD).]C. Loan proceeds that are used solely to pay:(1) Premiums 
for the policy; and(2) The costs of the loan, including, without limitation, interest, arrangement 
fees, utilization fees and similar fees, closing costs, legal fees and expenses, trustee fees and 
expenses and 3rd-party collateral provider fees and expenses, including fees payable to letter of 
credit issuers; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]D. A loan made by a bank or other licensed financial 
institution in which the lender takes an interest in a life insurance policy solely to secure 
repayment of a loan or, if there is a default on the loan and the policy is transferred, the transfer 
of such a policy by the lender, as long as neither the default itself nor the transfer of the policy in 
connection with such default is pursuant to an agreement or understanding with any other person 
for the purpose of evading regulation under this chapter; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]E. Unless the 
premium finance loan otherwise constitutes a settlement contract under this subsection, a loan 
made by a lender that does not violate Title 9-A, Article 2; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]F. An 
agreement in which all the parties are closely related to the insured by blood or law or have a 
lawful substantial economic interest in the continued life, health and bodily safety of the person 
insured or are trusts established primarily for the benefit of such parties; [2007, c. 543, §4 
(NEW).]G. Any designation, consent or agreement by an insured who is an employee of an 
employer in connection with the purchase by the employer, or by a trust established by the 
employer, of life insurance on the life of the employee; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]H. A bona fide 
business succession planning arrangement:(1) Between shareholders in a corporation or between 
a corporation and one or more of its shareholders or one or more trusts established by its 
shareholders;(2) Between partners in a partnership or between a partnership and one or more of 
its partners or one or more trusts established by its partners; or(3) Between members in a limited 
liability company or between a limited liability company and one or more of its members or one 
or more trusts established by its members; [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]I. An agreement entered 
into by a service recipient, or a trust established by the service recipient, and a service provider, 
or a trust established by the service provider, who performs significant services for the service 

recipient's trade or business; or [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).]J. Any contract, transaction or 
arrangement other than those set forth in paragraphs A to I exempted from the definition of 
"settlement contract" by the superintendent by rule based on a determination that the contract, 
transaction or arrangement is not of the type intended to be regulated by this chapter. Rules 
adopted pursuant to this paragraph are routine technical rules as defined in Title 5, chapter 375, 
subchapter 2-A. [2007, c. 543, §4 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §3 (AMD).] 
10.Settlement producer. "Settlement producer" means any person who has life insurance 
producer authority, who acts or aids in any manner in the soliciting of a settlement on behalf of a 
viator and for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration offers or attempts to negotiate 
settlement contracts between a viator and one or more settlement providers. "Settlement 
producer" does not include an attorney, accountant, financing entity or person exercising a power 
of attorney granted by the viator retained to represent the viator and whose compensation is paid 
solely by the viator without regard to whether the settlement is effected. "Settlement producer" 
does not include a credit union or an employer or association that makes its employees or 
members aware of settlement contracts. 
[2009, c. 376, §4 (AMD).] 
11.Settlement provider. "Settlement provider" means a person other than the viator that enters 
into or effectuates a settlement contract. "Settlement provider" does not include:A. A supervised 
lender, as defined in Title 9-A, section 1-301, subsection 39, that takes an assignment of a life 
insurance policy as collateral for a loan; [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]B. The issuer of a life 
insurance policy providing accelerated benefits under section 2555 and pursuant to the contract; 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]C. An authorized or eligible insurer that provides stop-loss coverage to 
a settlement provider, purchaser, financing entity, special purpose entity or related provider trust; 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]D. A viator's friend or family member or other natural person who 
enters into no more than one agreement in a calendar year for the assignment, transfer, sale, 
devise or bequest of a life insurance policy for any value less than the expected death benefit; 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]E. A financing entity; [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]F. A special purpose 
entity; [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]G. A related provider trust; or [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]H. An 
accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 
501 and Rule 144A of the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and who acquires a policy 
from a settlement provider. [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
12.Special purpose entity. "Special purpose entity" means a corporation, partnership, trust, 
limited liability company or similar entity formed solely to provide either directly or indirectly 
access to institutional capital markets for a financing entity or licensed settlement provider. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
12-A.Stranger-originated life insurance. "Stranger-originated life insurance" means an act or 
practice to initiate a life insurance policy for the benefit of a person who, at the time of the 
origination of the policy, has no insurable interest in the insured. "Stranger-originated life 
insurance" includes, but is not limited to, cases in which life insurance is purchased with 
resources or guarantees from or through a person who, at the time of the inception of the policy, 

could not lawfully initiate the policy and when, at the time of policy inception, there is an 
arrangement or agreement to directly or indirectly transfer the ownership of the policy or the 
policy benefits to another person. "Stranger-originated life insurance" also includes the creation 
of a trust to give the appearance of insurable interest and the use of such a trust in order to 
initiate policies for investors in circumvention or violation of insurable interest laws and the 
prohibition against wagering on life. 
[2009, c. 597, §1 (AMD).] 
13.Terminally ill. "Terminally ill" means having an illness or sickness that can reasonably be 
expected to result in death within 24 months or less. 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
14.Viator. "Viator" means a person who assigns, transfers, sells, devises or bequeaths or seeks to 
assign, transfer, sell, devise or bequeath a death benefit or ownership of a life insurance policy or 
certificate under a settlement contract. "Viator" does not include:A. A settlement provider 
licensed under this chapter; [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]B. An accredited investor or qualified 
institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 and Rule 144A of the 
Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended; [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]C. A financing entity; 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]D. A special purpose entity; or [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).]E. A related 
provider trust. [2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §5 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6802-A 
Section 6803 - Settlement provider and producer license; license requirements1.License 
required. Licenses are required in accordance with this subsection.A. A person may not act as a 
settlement provider without a license from the superintendent issued pursuant to this section and 
subject to the provisions of this chapter. [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]B. A person may not perform 
the functions of, or otherwise act as, a settlement producer without a license from the 
superintendent as a life insurance producer. [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]C. [2003, c. 636, §6 
(RP).]C-1. If there is more than one viator on a single policy and the viators are residents of 
different states, the settlement contract is governed by the law of the state in which the viator 
having the largest percentage ownership resides or, if the viators hold equal ownership, the state 
of residence of one viator agreed upon in writing by all viators. [2003, c. 636, §6 
(NEW).]D. [2003, c. 636, §6 (RP).]E. [2003, c. 636, §6 (RP).] 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
2.Application; fee. Application for a settlement provider license must be made to the 
superintendent by the applicant on a form prescribed by the superintendent. The application must 
be accompanied by a fee not to exceed $400 in accordance with section 601. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
3.Renewal. A license for a settlement provider is continuous as long as the licensee remains 
qualified. The settlement provider must pay an annual fee not to exceed $400 in accordance with 
section 601. Failure to pay the fee within the terms prescribed may result in the revocation of the 

license unless cured within 5 days of written notice of failure to pay to the principal office of the 
licensee. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
4.Information required. The applicant for a settlement provider license shall provide such 
information as the superintendent requires and the information must be submitted on forms 
required by the superintendent. The superintendent may at any time require the applicant to 
disclose fully the identity of all stockholders except stockholders owning less than 5% of the 
shares of an applicant whose shares are publicly traded, partners, officers, directors, members 
and employees and the superintendent may, in the exercise of the superintendent's discretion, 
refuse to issue a license to an applicant if not satisfied that any stockholder, partner, director, 
member or employee of the applicant who may materially influence the applicant's conduct 
meets the criteria set forth in subsection 6. A settlement provider shall provide to the 
superintendent new or revised information about officers, stockholders controlling 10% or more 
of stock, partners, directors, members or designated employees within 30 days of the change. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
5.Authority under license. A settlement provider license issued to any person authorizes all 
officers, partners, directors, members and key management personnel of that person to act on 
behalf of the settlement provider, unless such activity requires a license under another provision 
of this Title. All officers, partners, directors, members and key management personnel of the 
person must be named in the application and any supplements to the application. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
6.Investigation. Upon the filing of an application and the payment of the settlement provider 
license fee, the superintendent shall make an investigation of the applicant and shall issue a 
license if the superintendent finds that the applicant:A. Has provided a detailed plan of operation; 
[1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).]B. Is competent and trustworthy and intends to 
act in good faith in the capacity of a settlement provider; [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]C. Has a 
good business reputation and has had experience, training or education so as to be qualified as a 
settlement provider; [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]D. If organized under the laws of this State, has 
provided a certificate of good standing from this State. If the applicant is a foreign entity, it must 
provide a certificate of good standing from its state of organization and a certificate of good 
standing from this State; [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]E. Has no officer, partner, director, member 
or key management personnel of the applicant that has been found guilty of, or has pleaded 
guilty or nolo contendere to, any crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, regardless of whether 
a judgment of conviction has been entered by the court; and [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).]F. Has 
provided an antifraud plan that meets the requirements of section 6818. [2003, c. 636, §6 
(NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
7.Financial responsibility. Evidence of financial responsibility must be provided to the 
superintendent in accordance with this subsection.A. A settlement provider shall provide 
evidence of financial accountability. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, a binding 
and committed lending facility of at least $1,000,000 with a term of at least one year or a net 
worth in excess of $100,000. [2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 

[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
8.Nonresidents. The superintendent may not issue a settlement provider license to a nonresident 
applicant unless a written designation of an agent for service of process is filed and maintained 
with the superintendent or the applicant has filed with the superintendent the applicant's written 
irrevocable consent that any action against the applicant may be commenced against the 
applicant by service of process on the superintendent. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
9.List. The superintendent shall maintain a complete list of all settlement providers licensed or 
with license pending in this State. The list must be available upon request to the general public. 
[2003, c. 636, §6 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6803 
Section 6803-A - Fiduciary obligation of settlement producer 
Irrespective of the manner in which the settlement producer is compensated, a settlement 
producer may represent only the interests of the viator and owes a fiduciary duty to the viator. 
[2009, c. 376, §6 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6803-A 
Section 6804 - License revocation and administrative assessments1.Superintendent's authority. 
[2003, c. 636, §7 (RP).] 
1-A.Superintendent's authority. The superintendent may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to 
renew the license of a settlement provider if the superintendent finds just cause to do so, which 
may include, but is not limited to, a finding that:A. There was any material misrepresentation in 
the application for the license or other information submitted to the superintendent; [2003, c. 
636, §7 (NEW).]B. The licensee or any officer, partner, director, member or key management 
personnel of the licensee has been convicted of fraudulent or dishonest practices, is subject to a 
final administrative action to suspend or revoke a settlement provider license or is otherwise 
shown to be untrustworthy or incompetent to act as a settlement provider; [2003, c. 636, §7 
(NEW).]C. The licensee as a settlement provider demonstrates an unreasonable pattern of 
payments to viators; [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).]D. The licensee or any officer, partner, director, 
member or key management personnel of the licensee has been found guilty of, or has pleaded 
guilty or nolo contendere to, any crime involving fraud or moral turpitude, regardless of whether 
a judgment of conviction has been entered by the court; [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).]E. The 
settlement provider has entered into any settlement contract that has not been approved pursuant 
to this chapter; [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).]F. The settlement provider has failed to honor 
contractual obligations set out in a settlement contract; [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).]G. The 
settlement provider no longer meets the requirements for initial licensure; [2003, c. 636, §7 
(NEW).]H. The settlement provider has assigned, transferred or pledged a policy acquired 
pursuant to a settlement contract to a person other than a settlement provider licensed in this 
State, an accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation 
D, Rule 501 and Rule 144A of the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended, a financing 

entity, a special purpose entity or a related provider trust; or [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).]I. The 
licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules adopted pursuant to this 
chapter. [2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §7 (NEW).] 
2.Hearing. Before the superintendent may deny a license application or suspend, revoke or 
refuse to renew the license of a settlement provider, the licensee or applicant has an opportunity 
for a hearing in accordance with Title 5, chapter 375, subchapter 4. 
[2003, c. 636, §7 (AMD).] 
3.Administrative penalty. The superintendent may, in addition to denying a license application 
or suspending or revoking a license, assess an administrative civil forfeiture of $500 for each 
willful violation of this chapter. This section may not be construed to diminish the penalties 
available for any violation of chapter 23, in addition to any penalties authorized under 
section 12-A. 
[1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6804 
 
Section 6805 - Approval of settlements contracts; disclosure statements and applications 
A settlement contract must be in writing and signed by all parties to the contract. A person may 
not use any contract, disclosure statement or application form with a viator who is a resident of 
this State unless it has been filed with and approved by the superintendent, pursuant to 
sections 2412 and 2413. The superintendent shall disapprove a settlement contract form or 
disclosure statement form if, in the superintendent's opinion, the contract or provisions contained 
therein are unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public or otherwise misleading or unfair 
to the viator. All such forms must be approved or denied by the superintendent within 60 
calendar days following receipt of submission by the superintendent. [2009, c. 376, §7 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6805 
Section 6806 - Reporting requirements; confidentiality of information1.Annual report. A 
settlement provider licensee shall file with the superintendent by March 1st of each year an 
annual statement containing such information as the superintendent prescribes by rule, including 
information related to settlement transactions on policies settled within 5 years of policy 
issuance. The superintendent may not adopt any rule that requires the submission of information 
that permits the identification of a viator or relates to transactions when the viator is not a 
resident of this State. The superintendent may not request, collect or compile personal 
information that identifies any viator or insured except in connection with the investigation of a 
specific complaint and with the prior written permission of the viator or insured or the viator's or 
insured's estate or representative to collect that information. The annual statement required by 
this subsection and by rule of the superintendent is a public record within the meaning of Title 1, 
chapter 13, subchapter 1. 
[2017, c. 75, §1 (AMD).] 

1-A.Fee for filing annual report. The fee for filing the annual report is the same as for an 
insurer as provided in section 601. On or before July 1st of each year, the superintendent shall 
forward to each settlement provider an itemized bill for the amount due for the filing of the 
annual statement and the amount due for the certificate of authority annual fee. 
[2003, c. 636, §9 (AMD).] 
2.Privacy protection. Except as otherwise required or permitted by law, a settlement provider, 
settlement producer, insurance company, insurance producer, independent insurance producer, 
information bureau, rating company or any other person with actual knowledge of the identity of 
a viator, or of the insured if other than the viator, may not disclose that identity, or the insured's 
financial or medical information, to any other person unless the disclosure:A. Is necessary to 
effectuate a settlement contract between the viator and a settlement provider and the viator and 
the insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure; [2003, c. 636, §9 (AMD).]B. Is 
provided in response to an investigation or examination by the superintendent or any other 
government officer or agency pursuant to section 6807; [2003, c. 636, §9 (AMD).]C. Is 
necessary to permit a financing entity, related provider trust or special purpose entity to finance 
the purchase of policies by a settlement provider and the viator and insured have provided prior 
written consent to the disclosure; [2003, c. 636, §9 (AMD).]D. Is a term or condition to the 
transfer of a policy by one settlement provider to another settlement provider; [2003, c. 636, §9 
(NEW).]E. Is necessary to allow the settlement provider or insurance producer or an authorized 
representative to make contacts for the purpose of determining health status; or [2003, c. 636, §9 
(NEW).]F. Is required to purchase stop-loss coverage. [2003, c. 636, §9 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §9 (AMD).] 
3.Sale or transfer. 
[2003, c. 636, §9 (RP).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6806 
Section 6807 - Examinations and investigations1.Complaint. 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (RP).] 
1-A.Examinations. The superintendent may conduct examinations in accordance with this 
subsection.A. The superintendent may conduct an examination under this chapter of a licensee as 
often as the superintendent in the superintendent's sole discretion considers appropriate. [2003, c. 
636, §10 (NEW).]B. For purposes of completing an examination of a licensee under this chapter, 
subject to the provisions of section 6806, the superintendent may examine or investigate any 
person, or the business of any person, insofar as the examination or investigation is, in the sole 
discretion of the superintendent, considered necessary or material to the examination of the 
licensee. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]C. In lieu of an examination under this chapter of any 
foreign or alien licensee licensed in this State, the superintendent may, at the superintendent's 
discretion, accept an examination report on the licensee as prepared by the superintendent of 
insurance for the licensee's state of domicile or port-of-entry state. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
2.Confidential information. 

[2003, c. 636, §10 (RP).] 
3.Records. Records of all settlement transactions must be maintained by the settlement provider 
licensee in accordance with this subsection.A. A settlement provider required to be licensed by 
this chapter shall retain for 5 years copies of all:(1) Proposed, offered or executed settlement 
contracts, settlement purchase agreements, underwriting documents, policy forms and 
applications from the date of the proposal, offer or execution of the settlement contract or 
settlement purchase agreement, whichever is later;(2) Checks, drafts or other evidence and 
documentation related to the payment, transfer, deposit or release of funds from the date of the 
transaction; and(3) Other records and documents related to the requirements of this chapter. 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]B. This subsection does not relieve a settlement provider licensee of 
the obligation to produce these documents to the superintendent after the retention period has 
expired if the person has retained the documents. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]C. Subject to the 
provisions of section 6806, records required to be retained by this subsection must be legible and 
complete and may be retained in paper, photographic, microprocess, magnetic, mechanical or 
electronic media or by any process that accurately reproduces or forms a durable medium for the 
reproduction of a record. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
4.Immunity. A cause of action may not arise against any person for the act of communicating or 
delivering information or data to the superintendent or the superintendent's authorized 
representative or examiner pursuant to an examination made under this chapter if the act of 
communication or delivery was performed in good faith and without fraudulent intent or the 
intent to deceive. This subsection does not abrogate or modify in any way any common law or 
statutory privilege or immunity heretofore enjoyed by the superintendent, the superintendent's 
authorized representatives or any examiner appointed by the superintendent.A. A cause of action 
may not arise against the superintendent, the superintendent's authorized representatives or any 
examiner appointed by the superintendent for any statements made or conduct performed in good 
faith while carrying out the provisions of this chapter. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]B. A cause of 
action may not arise against any person for the act of communicating or delivering information 
or data to the superintendent or the superintendent's authorized representative or examiner 
pursuant to an examination made under this chapter if the act of communication or delivery was 
performed in good faith and without fraudulent intent or the intent to deceive. This paragraph 
does not abrogate or modify in any way any common law or statutory privilege or immunity 
heretofore enjoyed by any person identified in paragraph A. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]C. A 
person identified in paragraph A or B is entitled to an award of attorney's fees and costs if that 
person is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel, slander or any other relevant tort 
arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the party bringing the 
action was not substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of this paragraph, a proceeding is 
"substantially justified" if the proceeding had a reasonable basis in law or fact at the time that it 
was initiated. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
5.Conduct of examinations. The following provisions govern the conduct of 
examinations.A. Upon determining that an examination should be conducted, the superintendent 
shall issue an examination warrant appointing one or more examiners to perform the examination 

and instructing them as to the scope of the examination. In conducting the examination, the 
examiner shall observe those guidelines and procedures as the superintendent considers 
appropriate. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]B. Every licensee or person from whom information is 
sought and its officers, directors and agents shall provide to the examiners timely, convenient 
and free access at all reasonable hours at its offices to all books, records, accounts, papers, 
documents, assets and computer or other recordings relating to the property, assets, business and 
affairs of the licensee or person being examined. The officers, directors, employees and agents of 
the licensee or person shall facilitate the examination and aid in the examination insofar as it is in 
their power to do so. The refusal of a licensee, by its officers, directors, employees or agents, to 
submit to examination or to comply with any reasonable written request of the superintendent is 
grounds for suspension or refusal of, or nonrenewal of, any license or authority held by the 
licensee to engage in the business of settlements or other business subject to the superintendent's 
jurisdiction. Any proceedings for suspension, revocation or refusal of any license or authority 
must be conducted pursuant to Title 5, chapter 375, subchapter 4. [2003, c. 636, §10 
(NEW).]C. The superintendent has the power to issue subpoenas, to administer oaths and to 
examine under oath any person as to any matter pertinent to the examination. Upon the failure or 
refusal of a person to obey a subpoena, the superintendent may petition a court of competent 
jurisdiction and, upon proper showing, the court may enter an order compelling the witness to 
appear and testify or produce documentary evidence. Failure to obey the court order is 
punishable as contempt of court. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]D. When making an examination 
under this chapter, the superintendent may retain attorneys, appraisers, independent actuaries, 
independent certified public accountants or other professionals or specialists as examiners, the 
reasonable cost of which must be borne by the licensee that is the subject of the examination. 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]E. This chapter may not be construed to limit the superintendent's 
authority to terminate or suspend an examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory 
action pursuant to the insurance laws of this State. Findings of fact and conclusions made 
pursuant to any examination are prima facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action. [2003, c. 
636, §10 (NEW).]F. This chapter may not be construed to limit the superintendent's authority to 
use and, if appropriate, to make public any final or preliminary examination report, any examiner 
or licensee workpapers or other documents or any other information discovered or developed 
during the course of any examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action that the 
superintendent may, in the superintendent's sole discretion, consider appropriate. [2003, c. 636, 
§10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
6.Examination reports. Examination reports may be composed only of facts appearing upon the 
books, records or other documents of the licensee or its agents or other persons examined or as 
ascertained from the testimony of its officers or agents or other persons examined concerning its 
affairs and of such conclusions and recommendations as the examiners find reasonably 
warranted from the facts. No later than 60 days following completion of the examination, the 
examiner in charge shall file under oath with the superintendent a verified written report of 
examination. Upon receipt of the verified report, the superintendent shall transmit the report to 
the licensee examined, together with a notice that affords the licensee examined a reasonable 
opportunity of not more than 30 days to make a written submission or rebuttal with respect to 
any matters contained in the examination report. In the event the superintendent determines that 

regulatory action is appropriate as a result of an examination, the superintendent may initiate any 
proceedings or actions provided by law. 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
7.Confidentiality of examination information. The disclosure of information is governed by 
this subsection.A. Names and individual identification data for all viators and insured persons are 
considered private and confidential information and may not be disclosed by the superintendent, 
unless required by law. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]B. Except as otherwise provided in this 
chapter, all examination reports, workpapers, recorded information, documents and copies 
thereof produced by, obtained by or disclosed to the superintendent or any other person in the 
course of an examination made under this chapter, or in the course of analysis or investigation by 
the superintendent of the financial condition or market conduct of a licensee, are confidential by 
law and privileged, are not subject to subpoena and are not subject to discovery or admissible in 
evidence in any private civil action. The superintendent is authorized to use the documents, 
materials or other information in the furtherance of any regulatory or legal action brought as part 
of the superintendent's official duties. 
For the purposes of this paragraph and paragraph C, "chapter" includes the law of another state 
or jurisdiction that is substantially similar to this chapter. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
C. Documents, materials or other information, including, but not limited to, all workpapers and 
copies thereof, in the possession or control of the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners, or its successor organization, and its affiliates and subsidiaries are confidential 
by law and privileged, are not subject to subpoena and are not subject to discovery or admissible 
in evidence in any private civil action if they are:(1) Created, produced or obtained by or 
disclosed to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or its successor organization, 
and its affiliates and subsidiaries in the course of assisting an examination made under this 
chapter or assisting a superintendent in the analysis or investigation of the financial condition or 
market conduct of a licensee; or(2) Disclosed to the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners, or its successor organization, and its affiliates and subsidiaries under paragraph 
D by a superintendent. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]D. The superintendent and any person that 
receives documents, material or other information while acting under the authority of the 
superintendent, including the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or its successor 
organization, and its affiliates and subsidiaries, may not testify in any private civil action 
concerning any confidential documents, materials or information subject to paragraph A. [2003, 
c. 636, §10 (NEW).]E. In order to assist in the performance of the superintendent's duties, the 
superintendent:(1) May share documents, materials or other information, including the 
confidential and privileged documents, materials or information subject to paragraph A, with 
other state, federal and international regulatory agencies, with the National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners, or its successor organization, and its affiliates and subsidiaries and 
with state, federal and international law enforcement authorities, as long as the recipient agrees 
to maintain the confidentiality and privileged status of the documents, materials, communication 
or other information; and(2) May receive documents, materials, communications or information, 
including otherwise confidential and privileged documents, materials or information, from the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or its successor organization, and its affiliates 
and subsidiaries and from regulatory and law enforcement officials of foreign or other domestic 
jurisdictions and shall maintain as confidential or privileged any document, material or 

information received with notice or the understanding that it is confidential or privileged under 
the laws of the jurisdiction that is the source of the document, material, or information. [2003, c. 
636, §10 (NEW).]F. A waiver of any applicable privilege or claim of confidentiality in the 
documents, materials or information does not occur as a result of disclosure to the superintendent 
under this section or as a result of sharing as authorized in paragraph E. [2003, c. 636, §10 
(NEW).]G. A privilege established under the law of any state or jurisdiction that is substantially 
similar to the privilege established under this subsection is available and enforced in any 
proceeding in, and in any court of, this State. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]H. This chapter may 
not prevent or be construed as prohibiting the superintendent from disclosing the content of an 
examination report or preliminary examination report or results, or any matter relating thereto, to 
the superintendent of insurance of any other state or country or to law enforcement officials of 
this State or any other state or an agency of the Federal Government at any time or to the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or its successor organization, as long as such 
agency or office receiving the report or matters relating thereto agrees in writing to hold it 
confidential and in a manner consistent with this chapter. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
8.Conflict of interest. The following provisions apply.A. An examiner may not be appointed by 
the superintendent if the examiner, either directly or indirectly, has a conflict of interest or is 
affiliated with the management of or owns a pecuniary interest in any person subject to 
examination under this chapter. This section may not be construed to automatically preclude an 
examiner from being:(1) A viator;(2) An insured in an insurance policy acquired pursuant to a 
settlement contract; or(3) A beneficiary in an insurance policy that is proposed to be acquired 
pursuant to a settlement contract. [2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).]B. Notwithstanding the 
requirements of this subsection, the superintendent may retain from time to time, on an 
individual basis, qualified actuaries, certified public accountants or similar individuals who are 
independently practicing their professions, even though these persons may from time to time be 
similarly employed or retained by persons subject to examination under this chapter. [2003, c. 
636, §10 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
9.Investigative authority of superintendent. In addition to the authority granted pursuant to 
section 220, the superintendent may investigate persons engaged in the business of settlements 
and persons suspected of engaging in fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts. 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6807 
Section 6808 - Disclosure 
With each application for a settlement, a settlement provider shall disclose in writing at least the 
following disclosures to a viator. Disclosure to a viator must include distribution of a brochure, 
approved by the superintendent, describing the process of settlements. The disclosures must be 
provided to the viator no later than the time the application for the settlement contract is signed 
by all parties and must be signed by the viator and the settlement provider and provide the 
following information: [2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 

1.Alternatives or options. Possible alternatives to or options that can be used in conjunction 
with settlement contracts, including, but not limited to, accelerated death benefits or policy loans 
offered by the issuer of the life insurance policy; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
2.Federal tax implications. The fact that some or all of the proceeds of the settlement contract 
may be free from federal income tax under the federal Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996, Public Law 104-191; and that restrictions, qualifications and other 
tax laws, particularly those of the state in which the viator resides, may apply and assistance 
should be sought from a professional tax advisor; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
3.State tax implications. The fact that some or all of the proceeds of the settlement may be free 
from state income tax under section 6809 and that restrictions, qualifications and other tax laws, 
including those of the state in which the viator resides, may apply and assistance should be 
sought from a professional tax advisor; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
4.Claims of creditors. The fact that proceeds of the settlement could be subject to the claims of 
creditors; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
5.Effect on government benefits. The fact that receipt of the proceeds of the settlement may 
adversely affect the recipient's eligibility for Medicaid or other means-based government 
programs, benefits or entitlements and that advice should be obtained from the appropriate 
agencies; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
6.Right to rescind. The fact that the viator has the right to rescind a settlement contract before 
the earlier of 30 calendar days after the date upon which the settlement contract is executed by 
all parties or 15 calendar days after the date upon which payment is received by the viator as 
provided in section 6809. If exercised by the viator, rescission is effective only if both notice of 
the rescission is given and repayment of all proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest 
to the settlement provider is made within the rescission period. If the insured dies during the 
rescission period, the settlement contract is deemed to have been rescinded, subject to repayment 
of all proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest to the settlement provider; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 
7.Potential reduction or loss of benefits to beneficiary. The fact that entering into a settlement 
contract may cause other rights or benefits, including conversion rights and waiver of premium 
benefits that may exist under the policy or certificate, to be forfeited by the viator and that 
assistance should be sought from a financial adviser; 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (AMD).] 

7-A.Potential inability to purchase additional insurance. The fact that, because of limits 
insurers may set on the amount of insurance on a single life, a change of ownership could leave 
the viator without the ability to purchase insurance in the future to replace the transferred policy; 
[2009, c. 376, §9 (NEW).] 
8.Funds. The fact that funds will be sent to the viator within 3 business days after the settlement 
provider has received the insurer's or group administrator's acknowledgment that ownership of 
the policy or interest in the certificate has been transferred and the beneficiary has been 
designated; and 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
9.Privacy disclosure. A statement containing the following language: "All medical, financial or 
personal information solicited or obtained by a settlement provider or settlement producer about 
an insured, including the insured's identity or the identity of family members, a spouse or a 
significant other, may be disclosed as necessary to effect the settlement contract between the 
viator and the settlement provider. If you are asked to provide this information, you will be asked 
to consent to the disclosure. The information may be provided to someone who buys the policy 
or provides funds for the purchase. You may be asked to renew your permission to share 
information every 2 years." 
[2003, c. 636, §10 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6808 
Section 6808-A - Contact with insured; additional disclosures1.Contact with insured. The 
insured may be contacted by either the settlement provider or its authorized representative for the 
purpose of determining the insured's health status. This contact is limited to once every 3 months 
if the insured has a life expectancy of more than one year and no more than once per month if the 
insured has a life expectancy of one year or less. 
[2003, c. 636, §11 (NEW).] 
2.Additional disclosures. A settlement provider shall provide the viator with at least the 
following disclosures no later than the date the settlement contract is signed by all parties. The 
disclosures must be conspicuously displayed in the settlement contract or in a separate document 
signed by the viator and the settlement provider or settlement producer and must provide the 
following information:A. The affiliation, if any, between the settlement provider and the issuer 
of the insurance policy to be acquired pursuant to a settlement contract; [2003, c. 636, §11 
(NEW).]B. The name, address and telephone number of the settlement provider; [2003, c. 636, 
§11 (NEW).]C. If an insurance policy to be purchased has been issued as a joint policy or 
involves family riders or any coverage of a life other than the insured's under the policy to be 
purchased, information regarding the possible loss of coverage on the other lives under the 
policy and advice to consult with the viator's insurance producer or the insurer issuing the policy 
for advice on the proposed settlement; [2003, c. 636, §11 (NEW).]D. The dollar amount of the 
current death benefit payable to the settlement provider under the policy or certificate. If known, 
the settlement provider shall also disclose the availability of any additional guaranteed insurance 
benefits, the dollar amount of any accidental death and dismemberment benefits under the policy 
or certificate and the settlement provider's interest in those benefits; [2009, c. 376, §10 

(AMD).]E. The name, business address and telephone number of the independent 3rd-party 
escrow agent and the fact that the viator may inspect or receive copies of the relevant escrow or 
trust agreements or documents; [2009, c. 376, §10 (AMD).]F. A reconciliation of the settlement 
provider's gross offer to the net amount to be received by the viator; [2009, c. 376, §10 
(NEW).]G. The identity of all persons compensated directly or indirectly by the settlement 
provider for the settlement contract, the amount of compensation paid to each and the method of 
calculating that compensation; [2009, c. 376, §10 (NEW).]H. Notice that the insured may be 
contacted as permitted by subsection 1 for the purpose of determining the insured's health; [2009, 
c. 376, §10 (NEW).]I. An offer to disclose to the insured all life expectancy estimates obtained 
by the provider; and [2009, c. 376, §10 (NEW).]J. Notice that complaints and inquiries may be 
brought to the attention of the superintendent. [2009, c. 376, §10 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §10 (AMD).] 
2-A.Disclosure by settlement producers. A settlement producer shall provide the viator with at 
least the following disclosures no later than the date the settlement contract is signed by all 
parties. The disclosures must be conspicuously displayed in the settlement contract or in a 
separate document signed by the viator and the settlement producer and must provide the 
following information:A. Notice that a settlement producer must exclusively represent the viator, 
not the insurer or the settlement provider, and owes a fiduciary duty to the viator; [2009, c. 376, 
§11 (NEW).]B. A description of all offers, counteroffers, acceptances and rejections relating to 
any proposed settlement of the policy; [2009, c. 376, §11 (NEW).]C. If any other persons are 
compensated directly or indirectly by the settlement producer for the settlement contract, their 
identity, the amount of compensation paid to each and the method of calculating that 
compensation; and [2009, c. 376, §11 (NEW).]D. Notice that complaints and inquiries may be 
brought to the attention of the superintendent. [2009, c. 376, §11 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §11 (NEW).] 
3.Notice of change in ownership or beneficiary. If the settlement provider transfers ownership 
or changes the beneficiary of the insurance policy, the settlement provider shall communicate the 
change in ownership or beneficiary to the insured within 20 days after the change. 
[2003, c. 636, §11 (NEW).] 
4.Disclosure of policyowner's rights. The superintendent shall develop an informational 
brochure to apprise consumers of their rights as owners of life insurance policies. The document 
must be made available at no cost to all insurance companies and life insurance producers and 
written in lay terms.A. The brochure must advise the consumer:(1) That life insurance is a 
critical part of a broader financial plan and that the consumer is encouraged, and has a right, to 
seek additional financial advice and opinions;(2) That possible alternatives to the lapse of the 
policy exist; and(3) Of the definitions of common industry terms. [2009, c. 376, §12 
(NEW).]B. The brochure must contain the following statement in large, bold or otherwise 
conspicuous typeface calculated to draw the eye: "Life insurance is a critical part of a broader 
financial plan. There are many options available, and you have the right to shop around and seek 
advice from different financial advisers in order to find the option best suited to your needs." 
[2009, c. 376, §12 (NEW).]C. The brochure may include brief descriptions of common products 
available from settlement providers. These products must be described in general terms for 
informative purposes only and not identify any specific settlement provider. [2009, c. 376, §12 

(NEW).]D. If the insured under an individual life insurance policy is 60 years of age or older, or 
is known by the insurer to be terminally ill or chronically ill, the insurer shall send notice to the 
policyowner that there may be alternative transactions available, including a copy of the 
superintendent's brochure, whenever:(1) The policyowner has requested the surrender of the 
policy in whole or in part;(2) The policyowner has requested an accelerated death benefit;(3) The 
insurer sends an initial notice that the policy may lapse; or(4) As the superintendent may require 
by rule. [2009, c. 376, §12 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §12 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6808-A 
Section 6809 - General provisions for settlement contracts1.Prior conditions. A settlement 
provider entering into a settlement contract with a viator shall first obtain:A. If the viator is the 
insured, a written statement from a licensed attending physician that the viator is of sound mind 
and under no constraint or undue influence to enter into a settlement contract; [2003, c. 636, §12 
(AMD).]B. Prior to or at the time of execution of the settlement contract, a witnessed document 
in which the viator consents to the settlement contract, represents that the viator has a full and 
complete understanding of the settlement contract and that the viator has a full and complete 
understanding of the benefits of the life insurance policy, acknowledges that the viator has 
entered into the settlement contract freely and voluntarily and, for persons who are terminally ill 
or chronically ill, acknowledges that the insured is terminally ill or chronically ill and that the 
terminal or chronic illness was diagnosed after the life insurance policy was issued; and [2003, c. 
636, §12 (AMD).]C. Notwithstanding section 2159, subsection 3 or any other provisions of state 
law, a document in which the insured consents to the release of the insured's medical records to a 
settlement provider and, if the life insurance policy was issued less than 2 years from the date of 
application for a settlement contract to the insurance company that issued the life insurance 
policy covering the life of the insured. [2003, c. 636, §12 (AMD).] 
The insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage submitted by a settlement 
provider not later than 30 calendar days from the date the request is received. The request for 
verification of coverage must be made on a form approved by the superintendent. In its response, 
the insurer shall indicate whether, based on the medical evidence and documents provided, the 
insurer intends to pursue an investigation regarding the validity of the insurance contract. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (AMD).] 
2.Confidentiality of medical information. All medical information solicited or obtained by any 
licensee is subject to the applicable provisions of state law relating to confidentiality of medical 
information. 
[1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).] 
3.Unconditional rescission. All settlement contracts must contain a provision that the viator has 
the right to rescind a settlement contract before the earlier of 30 calendar days after the date upon 
which the settlement contract is executed by all parties or 15 calendar days after the date upon 
which payment is received by the viator as provided in section 6808. Rescission if exercised by 
the viator is effective only if both notice of the rescission is given and a full repayment of all 
proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest to the settlement provider is made within the 

rescission period. If the insured dies during the rescission period, the settlement contract is 
deemed to have been rescinded, subject to repayment of all proceeds and any premiums, loans 
and loan interest to the settlement provider. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (AMD).] 
4.Transfer of insurance policy. The settlement provider shall designate an independent escrow 
agent and instruct the viator to send the executed documents required to effect the change in 
ownership or assignment or change in beneficiary directly to the independent escrow agent. 
Within 3 business days after the date the escrow agent receives the document, or from the date 
the settlement provider receives the documents, if the viator erroneously provides the documents 
directly to the provider, the settlement provider shall pay or transfer the proceeds of the 
settlement into an escrow or trust account maintained in a state or federally chartered financial 
institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or its 
successor. Upon payment of the settlement proceeds into the escrow account, the escrow agent 
shall deliver the original change in ownership or assignment or change in beneficiary forms to 
the settlement provider or related provider trust. Upon the escrow agent's receipt of the 
acknowledgment of the properly completed transfer of ownership or assignment or designation 
of beneficiary from the insurance company, the escrow agent shall pay the settlement proceeds to 
the viator. 
[2009, c. 376, §13 (AMD).] 
5.Effect of failure to tender consideration. Failure to tender consideration for the settlement 
under the terms of the settlement contract renders the contract voidable for lack of consideration 
until the time consideration is tendered to and accepted by the viator. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (AMD).] 
6.Unlicensed provider. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (RP).] 
7.Income. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (RP).] 
8.Advertising standards. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (RP).] 
9.Contacts with the insured. An insured may designate one or more adult individuals in regular 
contact with the insured as the individual for all inquiries regarding the insured's health status 
and, if that designation is made, a settlement provider may not make these inquiries to the 
insured unless the settlement provider is unable, for more than 30 days, to contact the designee 
after diligent effort. The insured may change this designation at any time upon written notice to 
the settlement provider. Contacts with the insured for the purpose of determining the health 
status of the insured after the settlement has occurred are limited to once every 3 months for 
insureds with an estimated life expectancy of more than one year and once per month for 
insureds with a life expectancy of one year or less. The settlement provider shall explain to the 
insured the procedure for these contacts prior to the time the settlement contract is entered into. 
The limitation in this rule on contacts does not apply to contacts made for reasons other than 

determining the insured's health status or necessary to maintain the policy in force. Settlement 
providers are responsible for the actions of their authorized representatives. 
[2003, c. 636, §12 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6809 
Section 6810 - Rules 
The superintendent may adopt rules implementing this chapter. These rules are routine technical 
rules under Title 5, chapter 375, subchapter 2-A. Rules may be adopted to: [2003, c. 636, §13 
(AMD).] 
1.Standards for evaluating reasonableness of payments. Establish standards for evaluating the 
reasonableness of payments to viators under a settlement contract only when the insured in the 
policy that is the subject of a settlement contract is terminally ill or chronically ill. This authority 
includes, but is not limited to, regulation of discount rates used to determine the amount paid in 
exchange for assignment, transfer, sale, devise or bequest of a benefit under a life insurance 
policy; 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
2.Licensing requirements and standards. Establish appropriate licensing requirements and 
standards for continued licensure for settlement providers; 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
3.Mechanism for financial accountability. Require a bond or other mechanism for financial 
accountability for settlement providers; 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
4.Govern relationship and responsibilities. Govern the relationship and responsibilities of both 
insurers and settlement providers and settlement producers and others in the business of 
settlement during the period of consideration or effectuation of a settlement contract; and 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
5.Implement other requirements. Implement any other requirements of this chapter. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6810 
Section 6811 - Prohibited practices and provisions under policies1.Assignment. The following 
provisions govern assignment.A. A policy of individual or group life insurance that permits 
assignment issued or delivered in this State may not, in any way, restrict a person from making 
an absolute assignment of rights for consideration. Prohibited restrictions include, but are not 
limited to, assignments only as a gift and without consideration, assignments only to a limited 
class of persons and assignments only to a natural person and not to a legal entity. [2003, c. 636, 
§13 (AMD).]B. A life insurance company that acknowledges and records an absolute assignment 
of life insurance policy or rights under a group life insurance policy may rely solely on the 
authorization of the assignor to make the assignment and the life insurance company is not 

obligated to inquire into the validity, sufficiency or terms of the assignment. In acknowledging 
and recording an assignment, a life insurance company acting in good faith and reliance on the 
presentation of the absolute assignment, acts in a ministerial capacity and may exhibit no 
discretion as to whether an assignor may make the assignment or whether the assignment 
conforms with applicable law. [1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).] 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
2.Rights under an assignment. The following provisions apply to an assignment.A. For life 
insurance contracts that permit assignment:(1) A person has the right to assign, transfer, sell or 
bequeath the ownership of or death benefit payable under a life insurance policy or certificate at 
any time for any remaining portion of that coverage after exercising any option for accelerated 
benefits;(2) A person also has the right to assign, transfer, sell, devise or bequeath the ownership 
of or death benefit payable under a life insurance policy or certificate if that coverage is on 
disability waiver of premium at any time; and(3) The absolute assignee of an individual life 
insurance policy or of all rights under a group life insurance policy has all rights at law or in 
equity as the assignor held under that policy, including, but not limited to, the right to convert the 
coverage to an individual policy, the right to timely notice of the right to that conversion at the 
time that right accrues, the right to make premium payments or take such other action as may be 
necessary under the policy in order to preserve the value of the coverage assigned, the right to 
receive information concerning the coverage, the right to receive notice of a lapse or 
discontinuation of coverage, the exclusive right to exercise any options concerning the assigned 
coverage during an open enrollment period and all such other rights and privileges initially 
granted to a person under the terms of the individual or group life insurance policy. [2003, c. 
636, §13 (AMD).]B. A person has the right to exercise any option for accelerated benefits under 
the terms of any individual or group life insurance policy at any time for any unassigned portion 
of that policy or certificate. [2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
3.Failure to give notice under group life insurance policy. If the rights under a group life 
insurance policy have been assigned and the administrator of the policy fails to give notice to the 
assignee that a person is no longer a covered person under the group and of the right to convert 
the policy to an individual life insurance policy, the period of time during which the assignee 
must make application for conversion under the terms of the group life insurance policy begins 
from the date the notice is given to the assignee. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
4.Riders and postsettlement increases or additions. With respect to policies containing a 
provision for double or additional indemnity for accidental death or any other riders or additional 
death benefits, including the increase in the death benefit in excess of the amount of the death 
benefits of the date the settlement contract is effected at the time the policy is assigned, 
transferred, sold, devised or bequeathed, unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing by the 
viator and the settlement provider, the additional amount remains payable to the beneficiary last 
named by the viator prior to entering into the settlement contract or to such other beneficiary 
other than the settlement provider as the viator may thereafter designate or, in the absence of a 
designation, to the estate of the viator. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 

5.Prohibition on settlements. It is a violation of this chapter for any person to enter into a 
settlement contract at any time prior to, or at the time of the application for, the issuance of a 
policy or within a 2-year period commencing with the date of issuance of the insurance policy or 
certificate unless the viator certifies to the settlement provider that one or more of the following 
conditions have been met within the 2-year period:A. The policy was issued upon the viator's 
exercise of conversion rights arising out of a group or individual policy, as long as the total of 
the time covered under the conversion policy plus the time covered under the prior policy is at 
least 24 months. The time covered under a group policy must be calculated without regard to any 
change in insurance carriers, as long as the coverage has been continuous and under the same 
group sponsorship; and [2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).]B. The viator submits independent evidence 
to the settlement provider that one or more of the following conditions have been met within the 
2-year period:(1) The viator or insured is terminally ill or chronically ill; or(2) The viator or 
insured disposes of the viator's entire ownership interest in a closely held corporation pursuant to 
the terms of a buyout or other similar agreement in effect at the time the insurance policy was 
initially issued. [2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
[2007, c. 543, §6 (AMD).] 
6.Submission of certification. If the settlement provider submits to the insurer a copy of the 
owner's or insured's certification described in subsection 5 when the settlement provider submits 
a request to the insurer to effect the transfer of the policy or certificate to the settlement provider, 
the copy is deemed to conclusively establish that the settlement contract satisfies the 
requirements of this section and the insurer shall timely respond to the request. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6811 
Section 6812 - Insurance company practices1.Duty to provide information. In addition to the 
provisions in section 6809, an insurance company that is licensed to do business in this State 
shall promptly respond to reasonable requests for policy information from a settlement provider 
or settlement producer upon the receipt of the following documents in the office of the insurance 
company:A. An authorization signed by the viator to release specified information regarding the 
policy or certificate to a named licensed settlement provider or settlement producer; and [2003, c. 
636, §13 (AMD).]B. A request in writing from the settlement provider or settlement producer for 
the specified policy or certificate information. [2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
Requests for the following items related to the policy or certificate that is the subject of a 
settlement transaction are deemed to be reasonable: ownership of and death benefits under the 
policy or certificate; premium information on the policy or certificate; liens, assignments and 
additional benefits; waiver of premium; and ownership and assignment provisions. The 
information provided must be the most recent information on file. By rule, the superintendent 
may specify additional criteria for information requests deemed reasonable under this section by 
a settlement provider. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
2.Conversion of group insurance. An issuer or 3rd-party administrator of a group life insurance 
policy shall promptly issue an individual conversion policy if the conversion is being requested 

for the purpose of entering into a settlement contract. For the purposes of this section, issuance of 
such a policy is deemed timely if it meets relevant standards for timeliness under chapter 23. 
This subsection may not be construed to create any new conversion rights not already granted by 
the policy or certificate being acquired pursuant to a settlement contract. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
3.Right to assign rights or benefits. Subsection 1 or 2 does not prohibit a viator under a group 
life insurance policy from assigning rights or benefits under the policy to a licensed settlement 
provider or converting the coverage to an individual life insurance policy. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
4.Assignment restrictions prohibited. A policy of group life insurance issued or in existence in 
this State that permits any assignment of a viator's rights may not restrict the viator from making 
assignments other than by gift. 
[1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).] 
5.Purchase of securities. This chapter does not require notice to the superintendent of, or restrict 
an insurance company from investing in, or participating in, or purchasing any securities issued 
in any transaction including without limitation any financing, securitization transaction or 
securities offering in which the licensed settlement provider sells, assigns, transfers, pledges, 
hypothecates or otherwise disposes of settlement contracts, policies acquired pursuant to 
settlement contracts or any interest therein. 
[2003, c. 636, §13 (AMD).] 
6.Protection of policyholder's rights. An insurer may not engage in a transaction, act, practice 
or course of business or dealing that restricts, limits or impairs in any way the lawful transfer of 
ownership, change of beneficiary or assignment of a policy. This subsection does not prohibit a 
lawful contract provision granting irrevocable rights to a beneficiary or lawfully prohibiting 
assignment. 
[2009, c. 376, §14 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6812 
Section 6812-A - Inquiries and optional disclosures by life insurers1.Permitted inquiries 
regarding premium financing. In addition to any other information a life insurer may lawfully 
request in an application for insurance, the insurer may ask whether the proposed owner intends 
to pay premiums with the assistance of financing from a lender that will use the policy as 
collateral to support the financing, and if so, whether:A. The applicant has entered into any 
agreement or arrangement providing for the future sale of this life insurance policy; [2009, c. 
376, §15 (NEW).]B. The loan arrangement for the policy provides funds sufficient to pay for 
some or all of the premiums, costs and expenses associated with obtaining and maintaining the 
applicant's life insurance policy; [2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).]C. The applicant has entered into 
any agreement by which the applicant is to receive consideration in exchange for procuring the 
policy; and [2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).]D. The borrower has an insurable interest in the insured. 
[2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).] 

2.Prohibited transactions. If the information obtained by the life insurer demonstrates that the 
loan provides funds that can be used for a purpose other than paying for the premiums, costs and 
expenses associated with obtaining and maintaining the life insurance policy and loan or that the 
transaction otherwise violates this chapter, the insurer shall reject the application. 
[2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).] 
3.Optional disclosures by the life insurer. The insurer may make disclosures to the applicant, 
the insured and other affected persons, either on the application, an amendment to the application 
or a separate document, in the following form: 
"If you have entered into a loan arrangement in which the policy is used as collateral and the 
policy does change ownership at some point in the future in satisfaction of the loan, the 
following may be true: 
A. A change of ownership could lead to a stranger owning an interest in the insured's life; [2009, 
c. 376, §15 (NEW).]B. Your ability to purchase future insurance on the insured's life could be 
limited because there is a limit to how much coverage insurers will issue on one life; [2009, c. 
376, §15 (NEW).]C. Should there be a change of ownership and should you wish to obtain more 
insurance coverage on the insured's life in the future, the insured's higher issue age, a change in 
health status or other factors may reduce the ability to obtain coverage or may result in 
significantly higher premiums; and [2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).]D. You should consult a 
professional advisor because a change in ownership in satisfaction of the loan may result in tax 
consequences to the owner, depending on the structure of the loan." [2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).] 
[2009, c. 376, §15 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6812-A 
Section 6814 - Unfair trade practices 
A violation of this chapter is an unfair trade practice under Title 5, chapter 10 and subject to the 
penalties contained in that chapter. [1997, c. 430, §1 (NEW); 1997, c. 430, §2 (AFF).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6814 
Section 6815 - Assignment or resale of policies1.Prohibited transfers. A settlement provider 
may not sell, assign, transfer or pledge a policy acquired pursuant to a settlement contract except 
to a licensed settlement provider or a person exempt from licensing under section 6803. 
[2003, c. 636, §15 (AMD).] 
2.Securities registration. Any sale by a settlement provider of settlement contracts, policies 
acquired pursuant to settlement contracts or interests therein that constitute a "security" within 
the meaning of the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Maine Uniform 
Securities Act, as amended, must be registered under those statutes unless there is an available 
exemption from registration under those statutes. 
[2005, c. 65, Pt. C, §14 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6815 

Section 6815-A - Regulatory requirements under Maine Uniform Securities Act 
This chapter does not preempt the regulatory requirements set forth in the Maine Uniform 
Securities Act, as amended, including but not limited to the regulation of securities transactions 
in settlement contracts or viatical settlement contracts and the licensing of any person or entity 
engaged in the sale of securities. [2005, c. 65, Pt. C, §15 (AMD).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6815-A 
Section 6817 - Advertising of settlements1.Advertising for settlements. Every settlement 
provider licensee shall establish and at all times maintain a system of control over the content, 
form and method of dissemination of all advertisements of its contracts, products and services. 
All advertisements, regardless of by whom written, created, designed or presented, are the 
responsibility of the settlement provider licensee, as well as the individual who created or 
presented the advertisement. A system of control must include providing regular routine 
notification, at least once a year, to agents and others authorized by the settlement licensee to 
disseminate advertisements; the notification must include the requirements and procedures for 
approval of any advertisements not furnished by the settlement provider licensee prior to the 
advertisements' use. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
2.Form and content. Advertisements must be truthful and not misleading in fact or by 
implication. The form and content of an advertisement of a settlement contract must be 
sufficiently complete and clear so as to avoid deception. It may not have the capacity or tendency 
to mislead or deceive. Whether an advertisement has the capacity or tendency to mislead or 
deceive must be determined by the superintendent from the overall impression that the 
advertisement may be reasonably expected to create upon a person of average education or 
intelligence within the segment of the public to which it is directed. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
3.Standards for disclosure. An advertisement must comply with standards for disclosure 
determined by rule by the superintendent. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
4.Applicability. This section applies to any advertisement of settlement contracts or related 
products or services intended for dissemination in this State, including advertising on the Internet 
viewed by persons located in this State. If disclosure requirements are established pursuant to 
federal regulation, this section must be interpreted so as to minimize or eliminate conflict with 
federal regulation whenever possible. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6817 
Section 6818 - Fraud prevention and control1.Fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts 
prohibited. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary:A. A person may not 
commit a fraudulent viatical or life settlement act; [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. A person may 
not knowingly or intentionally interfere with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or 

investigations of suspected or actual violations of this chapter; and [2003, c. 636, §18 
(NEW).]C. A person in the business of settlements may not knowingly or intentionally permit 
any person convicted of a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust to participate in the 
business of settlements. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
2.Fraud warning required. Settlement contracts and applications for settlements, regardless of 
the form of transmission, must contain the following statement or a substantially similar 
statement: "Any person who knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance 
or a settlement contract is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in 
prison." The lack of a statement as required in this subsection does not constitute a defense in 
any prosecution for a fraudulent viatical or life settlement act. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
3.Mandatory reporting of fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts. Any person engaged in 
the business of settlements having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical or 
life settlement act is being, will be or has been committed shall provide to the superintendent the 
information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the superintendent. Any other person 
having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical or life settlement act is being, 
will be or has been committed may provide to the superintendent the information required by, 
and in a manner prescribed by, the superintendent. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
4.Immunity from liability. Except as provided in subsection 5, civil liability may not be 
imposed on and a cause of action may not arise from a person's furnishing information 
concerning suspected, anticipated or completed fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts or 
suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts if the information is provided to or received 
from:A. The superintendent or the superintendent's employees, agents or representatives; [2003, 
c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. Federal, state or local law enforcement or regulatory officials or their 
employees, agents or representatives; [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]C. The National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners or its successor organization, National Association of Securities 
Dealers or its successor organization, the North American Securities Administrators Association 
or its successor organization, or their employees, agents or representatives of these organizations, 
or other regulatory body overseeing life insurance, settlements securities or investment fraud; 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]D. A person involved in the prevention and detection of fraudulent 
viatical or life settlement acts or that person's agents, employees or representatives; or [2003, c. 
636, §18 (NEW).]E. The life insurer that issued the life insurance policy covering the life of the 
insured. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
5.Exception. The following provisions apply to the imposition of civil liability arising from 
information provided to or received from the superintendent or the superintendent's employees, 
agents or representatives.A. Subsection 4 does not apply to statements made with actual malice. 
In an action brought against a person for filing a report or furnishing other information 
concerning a fraudulent viatical or life settlement act or a fraudulent insurance act, the party 
bringing the action shall plead specifically any allegation that Subsection 4 does not apply 

because the person filing the report or furnishing the information did so with actual malice. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. Subsection 4 does not apply to a person's furnishing information 
concerning that person's own suspected, anticipated or completed fraudulent viatical or life 
settlement acts or suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts. [2003, c. 636, §18 
(NEW).]C. This subsection does not abrogate or modify common law or statutory privileges or 
immunities enjoyed by a person described in subsection 4. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
6.Confidentiality. The following provisions apply.A. The documents and evidence provided 
pursuant to subsection 4 or obtained by the superintendent in an investigation of suspected or 
actual fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts is privileged and confidential and is not a public 
record under Title 1, chapter 13 and is not subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal 
action. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. Paragraph A does not prohibit release by the 
superintendent of documents and evidence obtained in an investigation of suspected or actual 
fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts:(1) In administrative or judicial proceedings to enforce 
laws administered by the superintendent;(2) To federal, state or local law enforcement or 
regulatory agencies, to an organization established for the purpose of detecting and preventing 
fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts or to the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners or its successor organization; or(3) At the discretion of the superintendent, to a 
person in the business of settlements that is aggrieved by a fraudulent viatical or life settlement 
act. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]C. Release of documents and evidence under paragraph B does 
not abrogate or modify the privilege granted in paragraph A. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
7.Other law enforcement or regulatory authority. This section does not:A. Preempt the 
authority or relieve the duty of other law enforcement or regulatory agencies to investigate, 
examine and prosecute suspected violations of law; [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. Prevent or 
prohibit a person from disclosing voluntarily information concerning viatical or life settlement 
fraud to a law enforcement or regulatory agency other than the bureau; or [2003, c. 636, §18 
(NEW).]C. Limit the powers granted elsewhere by the laws of this State to the superintendent or 
an insurance fraud unit to investigate and examine possible violations of law and to take 
appropriate action against wrongdoers. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
8.Viatical or life settlement antifraud initiatives. In accordance with this subsection, a 
settlement provider licensee must have in place antifraud initiatives reasonably calculated to 
detect, prosecute and prevent fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts.A. At the discretion of the 
superintendent, the superintendent may order, or a licensee may request and the superintendent 
may grant, such modifications of the required initiatives under paragraph B as necessary to 
ensure an effective antifraud program. The modifications may be more or less restrictive than the 
required initiatives as long as the modifications may reasonably be expected to accomplish the 
purpose of this subsection. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]B. Antifraud initiatives must 
include:(1) Fraud investigators, who may be employees of a settlement provider or independent 
contractors; and(2) An antifraud plan, which must be submitted to the superintendent. The 
antifraud plan must include, but is not limited to:(a) A description of the procedures for detecting 
and investigating possible fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts and procedures for resolving 

material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance applications;(b) A description of 
the procedures for reporting possible fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts to the 
superintendent;(c) A description of the plan for antifraud education and training of underwriters 
and other personnel; and(d) A description or chart outlining the organizational arrangement of 
the antifraud personnel who are responsible for the investigation and reporting of possible 
fraudulent viatical or life settlement acts and investigating unresolved material inconsistencies 
between medical records and insurance applications. [2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).]C. Antifraud 
plans submitted to the superintendent are privileged and confidential and are not a public record 
under Title 1, chapter 13 or subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action. [2003, 
c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6818 
Section 6819 - Civil remedies; individual remedy1.Civil remedies and enforcement. In addition 
to the penalties available pursuant to section 6814, the superintendent may assess fines or take 
any other enforcement action permitted under section 12-A against any person who violates any 
provision of this chapter. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
2.Superior Court action. Any person who is injured by any action of a person in violation of 
this chapter may bring an action in Superior Court. The requirements for notice and filing of a 
cause of action under this subsection are governed by the Maine Rules of Civil Procedure. The 
person may recover damages, together with costs and disbursements. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
3.No private right of action. Except as specifically provided in subsection 2, this chapter 
provides no express or implied private right of action. 
[2003, c. 636, §18 (NEW).] 
24-A M.R.S. § 6819 
 
