State of North Dakota: Life Settlements Statutes 
North Dakota Century Code → Title 26.1 Insurance → Chapter 26.1-33.4 – Life Settlements 
Section 26.1-33.4-01 - Definitions 
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise: 
1. "Advertisement" means any written, electronic, or printed communication or any 
communication by means of recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio; television; the 
internet; or similar communications media, including filmstrips, motion pictures, and videos; 
published, disseminated, circulated, or placed before the public, directly or indirectly, for the 
purpose of creating an interest in or inducing a person to purchase or sell, assign, devise, bequest, 
or transfer the death benefit or ownership of a life insurance policy or an interest in a life 
insurance policy pursuant to a life settlement contract.2. "Broker" means an individual who, on 
behalf of an owner and for a fee, commission, or other valuable consideration, offers or attempts 
to negotiate life settlement contracts between an owner and providers. A broker represents only 
the owner and owes a fiduciary duty to the owner to act according to the owner's instructions, 
and in the best interest of the owner, notwithstanding the manner in which the broker is 
compensated. The term does not include an attorney, certified public accountant, or financial 
planner retained in the type of practice customarily performed in that individual's professional 
capacity to represent the owner whose compensation is not paid directly or indirectly by the 
provider or any other person, except the owner.3. "Business of life settlements" includes an 
activity involved in offering to enter, soliciting, negotiating, procuring, effectuating, monitoring, 
or tracking of life settlement contracts.4. "Chronically ill" means:a. Being unable to perform at 
least two activities of daily living, such as eating, toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing, or 
continence;b. Requiring substantial supervision to protect the individual from threats to health 
and safety due to severe cognitive impairment; orc. Having a level of disability similar to that 
described in subdivision a as determined by the United States secretary of health and human 
services.5. "Financing entity" means an underwriter, a placement agent, a lender, a purchaser of 
securities, a purchaser of a policy or certificate from a provider, a credit enhancer, or any entity 
that has a direct ownership in a policy or certificate that is the subject of a life settlement 
contract, but whose principal activity related to the transaction is providing funds to effect the 
life settlement contract or purchase of one or more policies, and who has an agreement in writing 
with one or more providers to finance the acquisition of life settlement contracts. The term does 
not include a nonaccredited investor or purchaser.6. "Financing transaction" means a transaction 
in which a licensed provider obtains financing from a financing entity, including any secured or 
unsecured financing, any securitization transaction, or any securities offering which either is 
registered or exempt from registration under federal and state securities law.7. "Fraudulent life 
settlement act" includes:a. Any act or omission committed by any person that, knowingly and 
with intent to defraud, for the purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, 
commits or permits the person's employees or agents to engage in acts, including:(1) Presenting, 
causing to be presented, or preparing with knowledge and belief that it will be presented to or by 
a provider, premium finance lender, broker, insurer, insurance producer, or any other person, 
false material information, or concealing material information, as part of, in support of, or 
concerning a fact material to one or more of the following:(a) An application for the issuance of 
a life settlement contract or insurance policy;(b) The underwriting of a life settlement contract or 
insurance policy;(c) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to a life settlement contract or 

insurance policy;(d) Premiums paid on an insurance policy;(e) Payments and changes in 
ownership or beneficiary made in accordance with the terms of a life settlement contract or 
insurance policy;(f) The reinstatement or conversion of an insurance policy;(g) In the 
solicitation, offer to enter, or effectuation of a life settlement contract or insurance policy;(h) The 
issuance of written evidence of life settlement contracts or insurance;(i) Any application for, the 
existence of, or any payments related to a loan secured directly or indirectly by any interest in a 
life insurance policy; or(j) Enter into any practice or plan which involves stranger-originated life 
insurance;(2) Failing to disclose to the insurer where the request for such disclosure has been 
asked for by the insurer that the prospective insured has undergone a life expectancy evaluation 
by any individual or entity other than the insurer or the insurer's authorized representatives in 
connection with the issuance of the policy.(3) Employing any device, scheme, or artifice to 
defraud in the business of life settlements.(4) In the solicitation, application, or issuance of a life 
insurance policy, employing any device, scheme, or artifice in violation of state insurable interest 
laws.b. In the furtherance of a fraud or to prevent the detection of a fraud, any person commits or 
permits the person's employees or agents to:(1) Remove, conceal, alter, destroy, or sequester 
from the commissioner the assets or records of a licensee or other person engaged in the business 
of life settlements;(2) Misrepresent or conceal the financial condition of a licensee, financing 
entity, insurer, or other person;(3) Transact the business of life settlements in violation of laws 
requiring a license, certificate of authority, or other legal authority for the transaction of the 
business of life settlements;(4) File with the commissioner or the chief insurance regulatory 
official of another jurisdiction a document containing false information or otherwise concealing 
information about a material fact from the commissioner;(5) Engage in embezzlement, theft, 
misappropriation, or conversion of moneys, funds, premiums, credits, or other property of a 
provider, an insurer, an insured, an owner, an insurance, a policyowner, or any other person 
engaged in the business of life settlements or insurance;(6) Knowingly and with intent to 
defraud, enter, broker, or otherwise deal in a life settlement contract, the subject of which is a life 
insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false information concerning any fact material 
to the policy or by concealing, for the purpose of misleading another, information concerning 
any fact material to the policy, where the owner or the owner's agent intended to defraud the 
policy's issuer;(7) Attempt to commit, assist, aid, or abet in the commission of or conspiracy to 
commit the acts or omissions specified in this subsection; or(8) Misrepresent the state of 
residence of an owner to be a state or jurisdiction that does not have a law substantially similar to 
this chapter for the purpose of evading or avoiding the provisions of this chapter.8. "Insured" 
means the individual covered under the policy being considered for sale in a life settlement 
contract.9. "Life expectancy" means the arithmetic mean of the number of months the insured 
under the life insurance policy to be settled can be expected to live as determined by a life 
expectancy company considering medical records and appropriate experiential data.10. "Life 
insurance producer" means any person licensed in this state as a resident or nonresident 
insurance producer that has received qualification or authority for life insurance coverage or a 
life line of coverage pursuant to chapter 26.1-26.11. "Life settlement contract" means a written 
agreement entered between a provider, or any affiliate of the provider, and an owner establishing 
the terms under which compensation or anything of value will be paid, which compensation or 
thing of value is less than the expected death benefit of the insurance policy or certificate, in 
return for the owner's present or future assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of the death 
benefit or ownership of any portion of an insurance policy or certificate of insurance for 
compensation; provided, however, that the minimum value for a life settlement contract must be 

greater than a cash surrender value or accelerated death benefit available at the time of an 
application for a life settlement contract. The term includes the transfer for compensation or 
value of ownership or beneficial interest in a trust or other entity that owns such policy if the 
trust or other entity was formed or availed of for the principal purpose of acquiring one or more 
life insurance contracts, which life insurance contract insures the life of an individual residing in 
this state.a. "Life settlement contract" also includes:(1) A written agreement for a loan or other 
lending transaction, secured primarily by an individual or group life insurance policy; or(2) A 
premium finance loan made for a policy on or before the date of issuance of the policy 
when:(a) The loan proceeds are not used solely to pay premiums for the policy and any costs or 
expenses incurred by the lender or the borrower in connection with the financing;(b) The owner 
receives on the date of the premium finance loan a guarantee of the future life settlement value of 
the policy; or(c) The owner agrees on the date of the premium finance loan to sell the policy or 
any portion of the policy's death benefit on any date following the issuance of the policy.b. "Life 
settlement contract" does not include:(1) A policy loan by a life insurance company pursuant to 
the terms of the life insurance policy or accelerated death benefits provisions contained in the life 
insurance policy, whether issued with the original policy or as a rider;(2) A premium finance 
loan, as defined herein, or any loan made by a bank or other licensed financial institution, 
provided that neither default on such loan nor the transfer of the policy in connection with such 
default is pursuant to an agreement or understanding with any other person for the purpose of 
evading regulation under this chapter;(3) A collateral assignment of a life insurance policy by an 
owner;(4) A loan made by a lender that does not violate chapter 26.1-20.1, provided the loan is 
not described in paragraph 1, and is not otherwise within the definition of life settlement 
contract;(5) An agreement in which all the parties:(a) Are closely related to the insured by blood 
or law; or(b) Have a lawful substantial economic interest in the continued life, health, and bodily 
safety of the individual insured, or are trusts established primarily for the benefit of such 
parties;(6) Any designation, consent, or agreement by an insured who is an employee of an 
employer in connection with the purchase by the employer, or trust established by the employer, 
of life insurance on the life of the employee;(7) A bona fide business succession planning 
arrangement:(a) Between one or more shareholders in a corporation or between a corporation 
and one or more of the corporation's shareholders or one or more trusts established by the 
corporation's shareholders;(b) Between one or more partners in a partnership or between a 
partnership and one or more of the partnership's partners or one or more trusts established by the 
partnership's partners; or(c) Between one or more members in a limited liability company or 
between a limited liability company and one or more of the limited liability company's members 
or one or more trusts established by the limited liability company's members;(8) An agreement 
entered by a service recipient, or a trust established by the service recipient, and a service 
provider, or a trust established by the service provider, who performs significant services for the 
service recipient's trade or business; or(9) Any other contract, transaction, or arrangement from 
the definition of life settlement contract that the commissioner determines is not of the type 
intended to be regulated by this chapter.12. "Net death benefit" means the amount of the life 
insurance policy or certificate to be settled less any outstanding debt or lien.13. "Owner" means 
the owner of a life insurance policy or a certificate holder under a group policy, with or without a 
terminal illness, who enters or seeks to enter a life settlement contract. For the purposes of this 
definition, an owner is not limited to an owner of a life insurance policy or a certificate holder 
under a group policy that insures the life of an individual with a terminal or chronic illness or 
condition except where specifically addressed. The term does not include:a. Any provider or 

other licensee under this chapter;b. A qualified institutional buyer as defined in rule 144A of the 
federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.];c. A financing entity;d. A 
special purpose entity; ore. A related provider trust.14. "Patient identifying information" means 
an insured's address, telephone number, facsimile number, electronic mail address, photograph or 
likeness, employer, employment status, social security number, or any other information that is 
likely to lead to the identification of the insured.15. "Policy" means an individual or group 
policy, group certificate, contract, or arrangement of life insurance owned by a resident of this 
state, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this state.16. "Premium finance 
loan" means a loan made primarily for the purposes of making premium payments on a life 
insurance policy, which loan is secured by an interest in such life insurance policy.17. "Provider" 
means a person, other than an owner, that enters or effectuates a life settlement contract with an 
owner. The term does not include:a. Any bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, or 
credit union;b. A licensed lending institution, creditor, or secured party pursuant to a premium 
finance loan agreement which takes an assignment of a life insurance policy or certificate issued 
pursuant to a group life insurance policy as collateral for a loan;c. The insurer of a life insurance 
policy or rider to the extent of providing accelerated death benefits or riders or cash surrender 
value;d. Any individual who enters or effectuates no more than one agreement in a calendar year 
for the transfer of a life insurance policy or certificate issued pursuant to a group life insurance 
policy, for compensation or anything of value less than the expected death benefit payable under 
the policy;e. A purchaser;f. Any authorized or eligible insurer that provides stop-loss coverage to 
a provider, purchaser, financing entity, special purpose entity, or related provider trust;g. A 
financing entity;h. A special purpose entity;i. A related provider trust;j. A broker; ork. An 
accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in regulation D, rule 
501 or rule 144A of the federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], that 
purchases a life settlement policy from a provider.18. "Purchased policy" means a policy or 
group certificate that has been acquired by a provider pursuant to a life settlement 
contract.19. "Purchaser" means a person that pays compensation or anything of value as 
consideration for a beneficial interest in a trust which is vested with, or for the assignment, 
transfer, or sale of, an ownership or other interest in a life insurance policy or a certificate issued 
pursuant to a group life insurance policy which has been the subject of a life settlement 
contract.20. "Related provider trust" means a titling trust or other trust established by a licensed 
provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose of holding the ownership or beneficial interest 
in purchased policies in connection with a financing transaction. In order to qualify as a related 
provider trust, the trust must have a written agreement with the licensed provider under which 
the licensed provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and regulatory 
requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files relating to life 
settlement transactions available to the insurance department as if those records and files were 
maintained directly by the licensed provider.21. "Settled policy" means a life insurance policy or 
certificate that has been acquired by a provider pursuant to a life settlement contract.22. "Special 
purpose entity" means an organization formed solely to provide either directly or indirectly 
access to institutional capital markets for a financing entity or provider; or in connection with a 
transaction in which the securities in the special purpose entity are acquired by the owner or by a 
"qualified institutional buyer" as defined in rule 144 promulgated under the federal Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended [15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.]; or the securities pay a fixed rate of return 
commensurate with established a set-backed institutional capital markets.23. "Stranger-
originated life insurance" is a practice or plan to initiate a life insurance policy for the benefit of 

a third-party investor that at the time of policy origination has no insurable interest in the 
insured. Stranger-originated life insurance practices include cases in which life insurance is 
purchased with resources or guarantees from or through a person that at the time of policy 
inception could not lawfully initiate the policy on its own, and in which at the time of inception 
there is an arrangement or agreement, whether verbal or written, to directly or indirectly transfer 
the ownership of the policy or the policy benefits or both to a third party. Trusts that are created 
to give the appearance of insurable interest, and are used to initiate policies for investors, violate 
insurable interest laws and the prohibition against wagering on life. Stranger-originated life 
insurance arrangements do not include those practices set forth in subdivision b of subsection 
11.24. "Terminally ill" means having an illness or sickness that can reasonably be expected to 
result in death in twenty-four months or less. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-01 
Section 26.1-33.4-02 - Licensing and bonding requirements1. A person, wherever located, may 
not act as a provider or broker with an owner or multiple owners who is a resident of this state 
without first having obtained a license from the commissioner. If there is more than one owner 
on a single policy and the owners are residents of different states, the life settlement contract 
must be governed by the law of the state in which the owner having the largest percentage 
ownership resides or, if the owners hold equal ownership, the state of residence of one owner 
agreed upon in writing by all owners.2. Application for a provider or broker license must be 
made to the commissioner by the applicant on a form prescribed by the commissioner, and the 
application must be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by the commissioner; 
provided, however, that the license and renewal fees for a provider license must be reasonable 
and that the license and renewal fees for a broker license may not exceed those established for an 
insurance producer, as such fees are otherwise provided for in this title.3. A life insurance 
producer who has been duly licensed as a resident insurance producer with a life line of authority 
in this state or the producer's home state for at least one year and is licensed as a nonresident 
producer in this state is deemed to meet the licensing requirements of this section and must be 
permitted to operate as a broker.4. Not later than thirty days from the first day of operating as a 
broker, the life insurance producer shall notify the commissioner that the broker is acting as a 
broker on a form prescribed by the commissioner, and shall pay any applicable fee to be 
determined by the commissioner. Notification must include an acknowledgement by the life 
insurance producer that the broker will operate as a broker in accordance with this chapter.5. The 
insurer that issued the policy that is the subject of a life settlement contract may not be 
responsible for any act or omission of a broker, provider, or purchaser arising out of or in 
connection with the life settlement transaction, unless the insurer receives compensation for the 
placement of a life settlement contract from the provider, purchaser, or broker in connection with 
the life settlement contract.6. An individual licensed as an attorney, certified public accountant, 
or financial planner accredited by a nationally recognized accreditation agency, who is retained 
to represent the owner, whose compensation is not paid directly or indirectly by the provider or 
purchaser, may negotiate life settlement contracts on behalf of the owner without having to 
obtain a license as a broker.7. Licenses may be renewed annually on or before April thirtieth 
upon payment of the periodic renewal fee. As specified in subsection 2, the renewal fee for a 
provider may not exceed a reasonable fee. Failure to pay the fee within the terms prescribed 
results in the automatic revocation of the license requiring periodic renewal. A license issued 
after January first is not required to renew until April thirtieth of the following calendar year. A 

license issued between May 1, 2023, and July 31, 2023, is not required to be renewed until April 
30, 2025.8. The term of provider license must be equal to that of a domestic stock life insurance 
company and the term of a broker license must be equal to that of an insurance producer license. 
Licenses requiring periodic renewal may be renewed on or before April thirtieth upon payment 
of the periodic renewal fee as specified in subsection 2. Failure to pay the fees before the 
expiration of the renewal date results in expiration of the license. A license issued after January 
first is not required to be renewed until April thirtieth of the following calendar year. A license 
issued between May 1, 2023, and July 31, 2023, is not required to be renewed until April 30, 
2025.9. The applicant shall provide such information as the commissioner may require on forms 
prepared by the commissioner. The commissioner, at any time, may require the applicant to fully 
disclose the identity of the applicant's stockholders (except stockholders owning fewer than ten 
percent of the shares of an applicant whose shares are publicly traded), partners, officers, and 
employees, and the commissioner may refuse to issue the license in the name of any person if not 
satisfied that any officer, employee, stockholder, or partner thereof who may materially influence 
the applicant's conduct meets the standards of this chapter.10. A license issued to a partnership, 
corporation, or other entity authorizes all members, officers, and designated employees to act as 
a licensee under the license, if those individuals are named in the application and any 
supplements to the application.11. Upon the filing of an application and the payment of the 
license fee, the commissioner shall make an investigation of each applicant and may issue a 
license if the commissioner finds that the applicant:a. If a provider, has provided a detailed plan 
of operation;b. Is competent and trustworthy and intends to transact the applicant's business in 
good faith;c. Has a good business reputation and has had experience, training, or education so as 
to be qualified in the business for which the license is applied;d. If the applicant is a legal entity, 
is formed or organized pursuant to the laws of this state, or is a foreign legal entity authorized to 
transact business in this state, or provides a certificate of good standing from the state of its 
domicile;e. Has provided to the commissioner an antifraud plan that meets the requirements of 
section 26.1-33.4-12 and includes:(1) A description of the procedures for detecting and 
investigating possible fraudulent acts and procedures for resolving material inconsistencies 
between medical records and insurance applications;(2) A description of the procedures for 
reporting fraudulent insurance acts to the commissioner;(3) A description of the plan for 
antifraud education and training of the applicant's underwriters and other personnel; and(4) A 
written description or chart outlining the arrangement of the antifraud personnel who are 
responsible for the investigation and reporting of possible fraudulent insurance acts and 
investigating unresolved material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance 
applications; andf. If a provider or broker, has demonstrated evidence of financial responsibility 
in a format prescribed by the commissioner through a surety bond executed and issued by an 
insurer authorized to issue surety bonds in this state or through a deposit of cash, certificates of 
deposit, or securities or any combination thereof in the amount of one hundred fifty thousand 
dollars. The commissioner shall accept, as evidence of financial responsibility under this 
subdivision, proof that financial instruments in accordance with the requirements in this 
subdivision have been filed with one or more states in which the applicant is licensed as a 
provider or broker. The commissioner may ask for evidence of financial responsibility at any 
time the commissioner determines necessary. Any surety bond issued pursuant to this 
subdivision must specifically authorize recovery by the commissioner on behalf of any person in 
this state which sustained damages as the result of erroneous acts, failure to act, conviction of 
fraud, or conviction of unfair practices by the provider or broker.12. The commissioner may not 

issue any license to any nonresident applicant unless a written designation of an agent for service 
of process is filed and maintained with the commissioner or unless the applicant has filed with 
the commissioner the applicant's written irrevocable consent that any action against the applicant 
may be commenced against the applicant by service of process on the commissioner.13. Each 
licensee shall file with the commissioner before March first of each year an annual statement 
containing such information as the commissioner by rule may prescribe.14. A provider may not 
use any person to perform the functions of a broker, as provided under this chapter, unless the 
person holds a current, valid license as a broker, and as provided in this section.15. A broker may 
not use any person to perform the functions of a provider as defined in this chapter unless such 
person holds a current, valid license as a provider and as provided in this section.16. A provider 
or broker shall provide to the commissioner new or revised information about officers, ten 
percent or more stockholders, partners, directors, members, or designated employees within 
thirty days of the change.17. An individual licensed as a broker shall complete on a biennial 
basis fifteen hours of training related to life settlements and life settlement transactions as 
required by the commissioner; provided, however, that a life insurance producer who is 
operating as a broker pursuant to this section is not subject to the requirements of this subsection. 
Any person failing to meet the requirements of this subsection shall be subject to the penalties 
imposed by the commissioner. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-02 
Section 26.1-33.4-03 - License suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew1. The commissioner 
may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the license of any licensee if the commissioner finds 
that:a. There was any material misrepresentation in the application for the license;b. The licensee 
or any officer, partner, member, or director has been guilty of fraudulent or dishonest practices, 
is subject to a final administrative action, or is otherwise shown to be untrustworthy or 
incompetent to act as a licensee;c. The provider demonstrates a pattern of unreasonably 
withholding payments to policyowners;d. The licensee no longer meets the requirements for 
initial licensure;e. The licensee or any officer, partner, member, or director has been convicted of 
a felony or of any misdemeanor of which criminal fraud is an element; or the licensee has 
pleaded guilty or nolo contendere with respect to any felony or any misdemeanor of which 
criminal fraud or moral turpitude is an element, regardless whether a judgment of conviction has 
been entered by the court;f. The provider has entered any life settlement contract that has not 
been approved pursuant to this chapter;g. The provider has failed to honor contractual 
obligations set out in a life settlement contract;h. The provider has assigned, transferred, or 
pledged a settled policy to a person other than a provider licensed in this state, a purchaser, an 
accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in regulation D, rule 
501 or rule 144A of the federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended [ 15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.], 
financing entity, special purpose entity, or related provider trust; ori. The licensee or any officer, 
partner, member, or key management personnel has violated any of the provisions of this 
chapter.2. The commissioner may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the license of a broker if 
the commissioner finds that the broker has violated this chapter or has otherwise engaged in bad-
faith conduct with one or more owners.3. Before the commissioner denies a license application 
or suspends, revokes, or refuses to renew the license of any licensee under this chapter, the 
commissioner shall conduct a hearing. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-03 

Section 26.1-33.4-04 - Contract requirements1. A person may not use any form of life settlement 
contract in this state unless the contract has been filed with and approved, if required, by the 
commissioner in a manner that conforms with the filing procedures and any time restrictions or 
deeming provisions, if any, for life insurance forms, policies, and contracts.2. An insurer may not 
require, as a condition of responding to a request for verification of coverage or in connection 
with the transfer of a policy pursuant to a life settlement contract, that the owner, insured, 
provider, or broker sign any form, disclosure, consent, waiver, or acknowledgment that has not 
been expressly approved by the commissioner for use in connection with life settlement contracts 
in this state.3. A person may not use a life settlement contract form or provide to an owner a 
disclosure statement form in this state unless first filed with and approved by the commissioner. 
The commissioner shall disapprove a life settlement contract form or disclosure statement form 
if, in the commissioner's opinion, the contract or provisions contained therein fail to meet the 
requirements of sections 26.1-33.4-07, 26.1-33.4-08, and 26.1-33.4-10 and subsection 2 of 
section 26.1-33.4-14 or are unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public, or otherwise 
misleading or unfair to the owner. The commissioner may require the submission of advertising 
material. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-04 
Section 26.1-33.4-05 - Reporting requirements and privacy1. For any policy settled within five 
years of policy issuance, each provider shall file with the commissioner before March first of 
each year an annual statement containing such information as the commissioner may prescribe 
by regulation. In addition to any other requirements, the annual statement must specify the total 
number, aggregate face amount, and life settlement proceeds of policies settled during the 
immediately preceding calendar year, together with a breakdown of the information by policy 
issue year. The annual statement also must include the names of the insurance companies whose 
policies have been settled and the brokers that have settled said policies.a. Such information 
must be limited to only those transactions where the insured is a resident of this state and may 
not include individual transaction data regarding the business of life settlements or information 
that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the owner or the 
insured.b. Every provider that willfully fails to file an annual statement as required in this 
section, or willfully fails to reply within thirty days to a written inquiry by the commissioner in 
connection therewith, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by this chapter, be subject, 
upon due notice and opportunity to be heard, to a penalty of up to two hundred fifty dollars per 
day of delay, not to exceed twenty-five thousand dollars in the aggregate, for each such 
failure.2. Except as otherwise allowed or required by law, a provider, broker, insurance 
company, insurance producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, or any other 
person with actual knowledge of an insured's identity, may not disclose the identity of an insured 
or information that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the insured or 
the insured's financial or medical information to any other person unless the disclosure:a. Is 
necessary to effect a life settlement contract between the owner and a provider and the owner and 
insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;b. Is necessary to effectuate the sale 
of life settlement contracts, or interests therein, as investments, provided the sale is conducted in 
accordance with applicable state and federal securities law, and provided further that the owner 
and the insured have both provided prior written consent to the disclosure;c. Is provided in 
response to an investigation or examination by the commissioner or any other governmental 
officer or agency or pursuant to the requirements of section 26.1-33.4-12;d. Is a term or 

condition to the transfer of a policy by one provider to another provider, in which case the 
receiving provider shall comply with the confidentiality requirements of subsection 2 of section 
26.1-33.4-05;e. Is necessary to allow the provider or broker or its authorized representative to 
make contacts for the purpose of determining health status. For the purposes of this section, the 
term "authorized representative" does not include any person that has or may have any financial 
interest in the settlement contract other than a provider, licensed broker, financing entity, related 
provider trust, or special purpose entity; further, a provider or broker shall require its authorized 
representative to agree in writing to adhere to the privacy provisions of this chapter; orf. Is 
required to purchase stop-loss coverage.3. Nonpublic personal information solicited or obtained 
in connection with a proposed or actual life settlement contract is subject to the provisions 
applicable to financial institutions under the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act [Pub. L. 106-102] 
and all other state and federal laws relating to confidentiality of nonpublic personal information. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-05 
 
Section 26.1-33.4-06 - Examination1. The commissioner, when the commissioner deems it 
reasonably necessary to protect the interests of the public, may examine the business and affairs 
of any licensee or applicant for a license. The commissioner may order any licensee or applicant 
to produce any records, books, files, or other information reasonably necessary to ascertain 
whether such licensee or applicant is acting or has acted in violation of the law or otherwise 
contrary to the interests of the public. The expenses incurred in conducting any examination 
must be paid by the licensee or applicant.2. In lieu of an examination under this chapter of any 
foreign or alien licensee licensed in this state, the commissioner may, at the commissioner's 
discretion, accept an examination report on the licensee as prepared by the commissioner for the 
licensee's state of domicile or port-of-entry state.3. Names of and individual identification data 
for all owners and insureds must be considered private and confidential information and may not 
be disclosed by the commissioner unless required by law.4. Records of all consummated 
transactions and life settlement contracts must be maintained by the provider for three years after 
the death of the insured and must be available to the commissioner for inspection during 
reasonable business hours.5.a. Upon determining that an examination should be conducted, the 
commissioner shall issue an examination warrant appointing one or more examiners to perform 
the examination and instructing the examiners as to the scope of the examination. In conducting 
the examination, the examiner shall use methods common to the examination of any life 
settlement licensee and should use those guidelines and procedures set forth in an examiners' 
handbook adopted by a national organization.b. Every licensee or person from whom 
information is sought, its officers, directors, and agents shall provide to the examiners timely, 
convenient, and free access at all reasonable hours at its offices to all books, records, accounts, 
papers, documents, assets, and computer or other recordings relating to the property, assets, 
business, and affairs of the licensee being examined. The officers, directors, employees, and 
agents of the licensee or person shall facilitate the examination and aid in the examination so far 
as it is in their power to do so. The refusal of a licensee, by its officers, directors, employees, or 
agents, to submit to examination or to comply with any reasonable written request of the 
commissioner is grounds for suspension or refusal of, or nonrenewal of any license or authority 
held by the licensee to engage in the life settlement business or other business subject to the 
commissioner's jurisdiction. Any proceedings for suspension, revocation, or refusal of any 
license or authority must be conducted pursuant to section 26.1-01-03.1.c. The commissioner 

may issue subpoenas, administer oaths, and examine under oath any person as to any matter 
pertinent to the examination. Upon the failure or refusal of a person to obey a subpoena, the 
commissioner may petition a court of competent jurisdiction, and upon proper showing, the court 
may enter an order compelling the witness to appear and testify or produce documentary 
evidence.d. When making an examination under this chapter, the commissioner may retain 
attorneys, appraisers, independent actuaries, independent certified public accountants, or other 
professionals and specialists as examiners, the reasonable cost of which must be borne by the 
licensee that is the subject of the examination.e. This chapter does not limit the commissioner's 
authority to terminate or suspend an examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory 
action pursuant to the insurance laws of this state. Findings of fact and conclusions made 
pursuant to any examination are prima facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action.f. This 
chapter does not limit the commissioner's authority to use and, if appropriate, to make public any 
final or preliminary examination report, any examiner or licensee workpapers, or other 
documents, or any other information discovered or developed during the course of any 
examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action which the commissioner 
determines appropriate.6.a. Examination reports must be composed of only facts appearing upon 
the books, from the testimony of its officers or agents, or other persons examined concerning its 
affairs, and such conclusions and recommendations as the examiners find reasonably warranted 
from the facts.b. No later than sixty days following completion of the examination, the examiner 
in charge shall file with the commissioner a verified written report of examination under oath. 
Upon receipt of the verified report, the commissioner shall transmit the report to the licensee 
examined, together with a notice that shall afford the licensee examined a reasonable opportunity 
of not more than thirty days to make a written submission or rebuttal with respect to any matters 
contained in the examination report and which shall become part of the report or to request a 
hearing on any matter in dispute.c. If the commissioner determines that regulatory action is 
appropriate as a result of an examination, the commissioner may initiate any proceedings or 
actions provided by law.7.a. Names and individual identification data for all owners, purchasers, 
and insureds must be considered private and confidential information and may not be disclosed 
by the commissioner, unless the disclosure is to another regulator, is required under law, or is 
allowed under section 26.1-03-19.4.b. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all 
examination reports, working papers, recorded information, documents, and copies thereof 
produced by, obtained by, or disclosed to the commissioner or any other person in the course of 
an examination made under this chapter, or in the course of analysis or investigation by the 
commissioner of the financial condition or market conduct of a licensee must be confidential by 
law and privileged, is not subject to the state's open records laws, is not subject to subpoena, and 
is not subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action. The 
commissioner may use the documents, materials, or other information in the furtherance of any 
regulatory or legal action brought as part of the commissioner's official duties. The licensee 
being examined may have access to all documents used to make the report.8.a. An examiner may 
not be appointed by the commissioner if the examiner, either directly or indirectly, has a conflict 
of interest or is affiliated with the management of or owns a pecuniary interest in any person 
subject to examination under this chapter. This section may not be construed to automatically 
preclude an examiner from being:(1) An owner;(2) An insured in a life settlement contract or 
insurance policy; or(3) A beneficiary in an insurance policy that is proposed for a life settlement 
contract.b. Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, the commissioner may retain 
from time to time, on an individual basis, qualified actuaries, certified public accountants, or 

other similar individuals who are independently practicing their professions, even though these 
persons may from time to time be similarly employed or retained by persons subject to 
examination under this chapter.9.a. No cause of action arises nor may any liability be imposed 
against the commissioner, the commissioner's authorized representatives, or any examiner 
appointed by the commissioner for any statements made or conduct performed in good faith 
while carrying out this chapter.b. No cause of action arises, nor may any liability be imposed 
against any person for the act of communicating or delivering information or data to the 
commissioner or the commissioner's authorized representative or examiner pursuant to an 
examination made under this chapter, if the act of communication or delivery was performed in 
good faith and without fraudulent intent or the intent to deceive. This subdivision does not 
abrogate or modify in any way any common-law or statutory privilege or immunity heretofore 
enjoyed by any person identified in subdivision a.c. A person identified in subdivision a or b is 
entitled to an award of attorney's fees and costs if the person is the prevailing party in a civil 
cause of action for libel, slander, or any other relevant tort arising out of activities in carrying out 
the provisions of this chapter and the party bringing the action was not substantially justified in 
doing so. For purposes of this section, a proceeding is "substantially justified" if it had a 
reasonable basis in law or fact at the time that it was initiated.10. The commissioner may 
investigate suspected fraudulent life settlement acts and persons engaged in the business of life 
settlements.11. The commissioner may charge for examinations as provided for under section 
26.1-01-07. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-06 
Section 26.1-33.4-07 - Advertising1. A broker or provider licensed pursuant to this chapter may 
conduct or participate in advertisements within this state. Advertisements must comply with all 
advertising and marketing laws or rules adopted by the commissioner which are applicable to life 
insurers or to brokers and providers licensed pursuant to this chapter.2. Advertisements must be 
accurate and truthful, and may not be misleading in fact or by implication.3. A person or trust 
may not:a. Directly or indirectly, market, advertise, solicit, or otherwise promote the purchase of 
a policy for the sole purpose of or with an emphasis on settling the policy; orb. Use the words 
"free" or "no cost" or words of similar import in the marketing, advertising, soliciting, or 
otherwise promoting of the purchase of a policy. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-07 
Section 26.1-33.4-08 - Disclosures to owners1. The provider shall provide in writing, in a 
separate document that is signed by the owner and provider, the following information to the 
owner no later than the date the life settlement contract is signed by all parties:a. The fact that 
possible alternatives to life settlement contracts exist, including accelerated benefits offered by 
the issuer of the life insurance policy.b. The fact that some or all of the proceeds of a life 
settlement contract may be taxable and that assistance should be sought from a professional tax 
adviser.c. The fact that the proceeds from a life settlement contract could be subject to the claims 
of creditors.d. The fact that receipt of proceeds from a life settlement contract may adversely 
affect the recipient's eligibility for public assistance or other government benefits or entitlements 
and that advice should be obtained from the appropriate agencies.e. The fact the owner has the 
right to rescind a life settlement contract before the earlier of sixty calendar days after the date 
upon which the life settlement contract is executed by all parties or thirty calendar days after the 
life settlement proceeds have been delivered to the escrow agent by or on behalf of the provider 

as provided in subsection 11 of section 26.1-33.4-10. Rescission, if exercised by the owner, is 
effective only if both notice of the rescission is given and the owner repays all proceeds and any 
premiums, loans, and loan interest paid on account of the provider within the rescission period. If 
the insured dies during the rescission period, the contract is deemed to have been rescinded 
subject to repayment by the owner or the owner's estate of all proceeds and any premiums, loans, 
and loan interest to the provider.f. The fact that proceeds will be sent to the owner within three 
business days after the provider has received the insurer's or group administrator's 
acknowledgement that ownership of the policy or interest in the certificate has been transferred 
and the beneficiary has been designated in accordance with the terms of the life settlement 
contract.g. The fact that entering into a life settlement contract may cause other rights or benefits, 
including conversion rights and waiver of premium benefits, that may exist under the policy or 
certificate of a group policy to be forfeited by the owner and that assistance should be sought 
from a professional financial adviser.h. The amount and method of calculating the compensation 
paid or to be paid to the broker, or any other person acting for the owner in connection with the 
transaction, wherein the term compensation includes anything of value paid or given.i. The date 
by which the funds will be available to the owner and the transmitter of the funds.j. The fact that 
the commissioner shall require delivery of a buyer's guide or a similar consumer advisory 
package in the form prescribed by the commissioner to owners during the solicitation 
process.k. The disclosure document must contain the following language: 
All medical, financial, or personal information solicited or obtained by a provider or broker 
about an insured, including the insured's identity or the identity of family members, a spouse, or 
a significant other may be disclosed as necessary to effect the life settlement contract between 
the owner and provider. If you are asked to provide this information, you will be asked to 
consent to the disclosure. The information may be provided to someone who buys the policy or 
provides funds for the purchase. You may be asked to renew your permission to share 
information every two years. 
l. The fact that the commissioner shall require providers and brokers to print separate signed 
fraud warnings on their applications and on their life settlement contracts the following 
statement: 
Any person that knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance or life 
settlement contract is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in prison. 
m. The fact that the insured may be contacted by either the provider or broker or its authorized 
representative for the purpose of determining the insured's health status or to verify the insured's 
address. This contact is limited to once every three months if the insured has a life expectancy of 
more than one year, and no more than once per month if the insured has a life expectancy of one 
year or less. This contact may be made only by a provider or broker licensed in the state in which 
the owner resided at the time of the settlement or by the authorized representative of such a 
provider or broker.n. The affiliation, if any, between the provider and the issuer of the insurance 
policy to be settled.o. That a broker represents exclusively the owner, and not the insurer or the 
provider or any other person, and owes a fiduciary duty to the owner, including a duty to act 
according to the owner's instructions and in the best interest of the owner.p. The document must 
include the name, address, and telephone number of the provider.q. The name, business address, 
and telephone number of the independent third-party escrow agent, and the fact that the owner 
may inspect or receive copies of the relevant escrow or trust agreements or documents.r. The 

fact that a change of ownership could in the future limit the insured's ability to purchase future 
insurance on the insured's life because there is a limit to how much coverage insurers will issue 
on one life.s. If an insurance policy to be settled has been issued as a joint policy or involves 
family riders or any coverage of a life other than the insured under the policy to be settled, that 
the owner must be informed of the possible loss of coverage on the other lives under the policy 
and must be advised to consult with the owner's insurance producer or the insurer issuing the 
policy for advice on the proposed settlement.t. The dollar amount of the current death benefit 
payable to the provider under the policy or certificate. If known, the provider also shall disclose 
the availability of any additional guaranteed insurance benefits, the dollar amount of any 
accidental death and dismemberment benefits under the policy or certificate, and the extent to 
which the owner's interest in those benefits will be transferred as a result of the viatical 
settlement contract.u. Any affiliations or contractual arrangements between the provider and the 
purchaser.2. The written disclosures must be conspicuously displayed in any life settlement 
contract furnished to the owner by a provider, including any affiliations or contractual 
arrangements between the provider and the broker.3. A broker shall provide the owner and the 
provider with at least the following disclosures no later than the date the life settlement contract 
is signed by all parties. The disclosures must be conspicuously displayed in the life settlement 
contract or in a separate document signed by the owner and provide the following 
information:a. The name, business address, and telephone number of the broker.b. A full, 
complete, and accurate description of all the offers, counteroffers, acceptances, and rejections 
relating to the proposed life settlement contract.c. A written disclosure of any affiliations or 
contractual arrangements between the broker and any person making an offer in connection with 
the proposed life settlement contracts.d. The name of each broker who receives compensation 
and the amount of compensation received by that broker, which compensation includes anything 
of value paid or given to the broker in connection with the life settlement contract.e. A complete 
reconciliation of the gross offer or bid by the provider to the net amount of proceeds or value to 
be received by the owner. For the purpose of this section, gross offer or bid means the total 
amount or value offered by the provider for the purchase of one or more life insurance policies, 
inclusive of commissions and fees.f. The failure to provide the disclosures or rights described in 
this section is deemed an unfair trade practice pursuant to section 26.1-33.4-16. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-08 
Section 26.1-33.4-09 - Disclosure to insurer 
Without limiting the ability of an insurer from assessing the insurability of a policy applicant and 
determining whether to issue the policy, and in addition to other questions an insurance carrier 
may lawfully pose to a life insurance applicant, insurance carriers may inquire in the application 
for insurance whether the proposed owner intends to pay premiums with the assistance of 
financing from a lender that will use the policy as collateral to support the financing. 
1. If, as described in subsection 11 of section 26.1-33.4-01, the loan provides funds that can be 
used for a purpose other than paying for the premiums, costs, and expenses associated with 
obtaining and maintaining the life insurance policy and loan, the application must be rejected as 
a violation of the prohibited practices in section 26.1-33.4-12.2. If the financing does not violate 
section 26.1-33.4-12 in this manner, the insurance carrier:a. May make disclosures, such as the 
following, to the applicant and the insured, either on the application or an amendment to the 
application to be completed no later than the delivery of the policy: "If you have entered a loan 

arrangement where the policy is used as collateral, and the policy does change ownership at 
some point in the future in satisfaction of the loan, the following may be true:(1) A change of 
ownership could lead to a stranger owning an interest in the insured's life;(2) A change of 
ownership could in the future limit your ability to purchase future insurance on the insured's life 
because there is a limit to how much coverage insurers will issue on one life;(3) Should there be 
a change of ownership and you wish to obtain more insurance coverage on the insured's life in 
the future, the insured's higher issue age, a change in health status, and other factors may reduce 
the ability to obtain coverage and may result in significantly higher premiums; and(4) You 
should consult a professional adviser, since a change in ownership in satisfaction of the loan may 
result in tax consequences to the owner, depending on the structure of the loan;" andb. May 
require certifications, such as the following, from the applicant or the insured or both: 
I have not entered into any agreement or arrangement providing for the future sale of this life 
insurance policy; 
My loan arrangement for this policy provides funds sufficient to pay for some or all of the 
premiums, costs, and expenses associated with obtaining and maintaining my life insurance 
policy, but I have not entered into any agreement by which I am to receive consideration in 
exchange for procuring this policy; and 
The borrower has an insurable interest in the insured. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-09 
Section 26.1-33.4-10 - General rules1. A provider entering a life settlement contract with any 
owner of a policy, wherein the insured is terminally or chronically ill, first shall obtain:a. If the 
owner is the insured, a written statement from a licensed attending physician that the owner is of 
sound mind and under no constraint or undue influence to enter into a settlement contract; 
andb. A document in which the insured consents to the release of the insured's medical records to 
a provider, settlement broker, or insurance producer and, if the policy was issued less than two 
years from the date of application for a settlement contract, to the insurance company that issued 
the policy.2. The insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage submitted by a 
provider, settlement broker, or life insurance producer not later than thirty calendar days from the 
date the request is received. The request for verification of coverage must be made on a form 
approved by the commissioner. The insurer shall complete and issue the verification of coverage 
or indicate in which respects it is unable to respond. In its response, the insurer shall indicate 
whether, based on the medical evidence and documents provided, the insurer intends to pursue 
an investigation at this time regarding the validity of the insurance contract.3. Before or at the 
time of execution of the settlement contract, the provider shall obtain a witnessed document in 
which the owner consents to the settlement contract, represents that the owner has a full and 
complete understanding of the settlement contract, that the owner has a full and complete 
understanding of the benefits of the policy, acknowledges that the owner is entering into the 
settlement contract freely and voluntarily, and, for persons with a terminal or chronic illness or 
condition, acknowledges that the insured has a terminal or chronic illness and that the terminal or 
chronic illness or condition was diagnosed after the policy was issued.4. The insurer may not 
unreasonably delay effecting change of ownership or beneficiary with any life settlement 
contract lawfully entered in this state or with a resident of this state.5. If a settlement broker or 

life insurance producer performs any of these activities required of the provider, the provider is 
deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of this section.6. If a broker performs the verification 
of coverage activities required of the provider, the provider is deemed to have fulfilled the 
requirements of subsection 1 of section 26.1-33.4-08.7. Within twenty days after an owner 
executes the life settlement contract, the provider shall give written notice to the insurer that 
issued that insurance policy that the policy has become subject to a life settlement contract. The 
notice must be accompanied by the documents required by subdivision b of subsection 2 of 
section 26.1-33.4-09.8. All medical information solicited or obtained by any licensee must be 
subject to the applicable provision of state law relating to confidentiality of medical information 
if not otherwise provided in this chapter.9. All life settlement contracts entered in this state must 
provide the owner with a right to rescind the contract before the earlier of sixty calendar days 
after the date upon which the life settlement contract is executed by all parties or thirty calendar 
days after the life settlement proceeds have been sent to the escrow agent by or on behalf of the 
provider as provided in subsection 11. Rescission by the owner may be conditioned upon the 
owner giving notice and repaying to the provider within the rescission period all proceeds of the 
settlement and any premiums, loans, and loan interest paid by or on behalf of the provider in 
connection with or as a consequence of the life settlement. If the insured dies during the 
rescission period, the life settlement contract is deemed to have been rescinded, subject to 
repayment to the provider or purchaser of all life settlement proceeds and any premiums, loans, 
and loan interest that have been paid by the provider or purchaser, within sixty calendar days of 
the death of the insured. In the event of any rescission, if the provider has paid commissions or 
other compensation to a broker in connection with the rescinded transaction, the broker shall 
refund all the commissions and compensation to the provider within five business days following 
receipt of written demand from the provider, which demand must be accompanied by either the 
owner's notice of rescission if rescinded at the election of the owner or notice of the death of the 
insured if rescinded by reason of the death of the insured within the applicable rescission 
period.10. Within three business days after receipt from the owner of documents to effect the 
transfer of the insurance policy, the provider shall pay the proceeds of the settlement to an 
escrow or trust account managed by a trustee or escrow agent in a state or federally chartered 
financial institution pending acknowledgment of the transfer by the issuer of the policy. The 
trustee or escrow agent must be required to transfer the proceeds due to the owner within three 
business days of the later to occur of the expiration of any then remaining rescission period or 
the escrow agent's receipt of the acknowledgment of the properly completed transfer of 
ownership, assignment, or designation of beneficiary from the insurance company.11. Failure to 
tender the life settlement contract proceeds to the owner by the date disclosed to the owner 
renders the contract voidable by the owner for lack of consideration until the time the proceeds 
are tendered to and accepted by the owner. A failure to give written notice of the right of 
rescission tolls the right of rescission until sixty days after the written notice of the right of 
rescission has been given.12. Any fee paid by a provider, party, individual, or an owner to a 
broker in exchange for services provided to the owner pertaining to a life settlement contract 
must be computed as a percentage of the offer obtained, not the face value of the policy. This 
section does not prohibit a broker from reducing such broker's fee below this percentage if the 
broker so chooses.13. The broker shall disclose to the owner anything of value paid or given to a 
broker which relates to a life settlement contract.14. It is a violation of this chapter for any 
person to enter a life settlement contract at any time before or at the time of the application for or 
issuance of a policy that is the subject of a life settlement contract or within a five-year period 

commencing with the date of issuance of the insurance policy or certificate unless the owner 
certifies to the provider or the provider otherwise conclusively shows that one or more of the 
following conditions have been met within the five-year period:a. The policy was issued upon 
the owner's exercise of conversion rights arising out of a group or individual policy, provided the 
total of the time covered under the conversion policy plus the time covered under the prior policy 
is at least sixty months. The time covered under a group policy must be calculated without regard 
to any change in insurance carriers, provided the coverage has been continuous and under the 
same group sponsorship;b. The owner submitted independent evidence to the provider that one 
or more of the following conditions have been met within the five-year period:(1) The owner or 
insured is terminally or chronically ill;(2) The owner's spouse died or no remaining beneficiaries 
are then surviving;(3) The owner retired from full-time employment; or(4) The owner became 
physically or mentally disabled and a physician determined that the disability prevents the owner 
from maintaining full-time employment;c. A final order, judgment, or decree has been entered by 
a court of competent jurisdiction, on the application of a creditor of the owner, adjudicating the 
owner in default, bankrupt, or insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization of the 
owner or appointing a receiver, trustee, or liquidator to all or a substantial part of the owner's 
assets; ord. The owner entered a life settlement contract more than two years after the date of 
issuance of a policy and, with respect to the policy, at all times before the date that is two years 
after policy issuance, the following conditions are met:(1) Policy premiums have been funded 
exclusively with unencumbered assets, including an interest in the life insurance policy being 
financed only to the extent of the policy's net cash surrender value, provided by, or fully recourse 
liability incurred by, the insured or a person described in paragraph 5 of subdivision b of 
subsection 11 of section 26.1-33.4-01;(2) There is no agreement or understanding with any other 
person to guarantee any such liability or to purchase, or stand ready to purchase, the policy, 
including through an assumption or forgiveness of the loan; and(3) Neither the insured nor the 
policy has been evaluated for settlement in connection with the issuance of the policy.15. Copies 
of the independent evidence described in subdivision b of subsection 14 and documents required 
by subsection 1, 2, 3, or 7 must be submitted to the insurer when the provider submits a request 
to the insurer for verification of coverage. The copies must be accompanied by a letter of 
attestation from the provider that the copies are true and correct copies of the documents 
received by the provider.16. If the provider submits to the insurer a copy of the owner's or 
insured's certification described in and the independent evidence required by subdivision b of 
subsection 14 when the provider submits a request to the insurer to effect the transfer of the 
policy or certificate to the provider, the copy is deemed to establish conclusively that the life 
settlement contract satisfies the requirements of this section and the insurer timely shall respond 
to the request. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-10 
Section 26.1-33.4-11 - Authority to adopt regulations - Conflict of laws1. The commissioner may 
adopt rules implementing this chapter and regulating the activities and relationships of providers, 
brokers, and insurers and their agents.2. The commissioner may establish standards for 
evaluating reasonableness of a payment under a life settlement contract for an individual who is 
terminally or chronically ill. This authority includes regulation of discount rates used to 
determine the amount paid in exchange for assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of a 
benefit under a life insurance policy insuring the life of an individual who is chronically or 
terminally ill.3. The commissioner may establish appropriate licensing requirements, fees, and 

standards for continued licensure for providers and brokers.4.a. If there is more than one owner 
on a single policy and the owners are residents of different states, the life settlement contract 
must be governed by the law of the state in which the owner having the largest percentage 
ownership resides, or if the owners hold equal ownership, the state of residence of one owner 
agreed upon in writing by all of the owners. The law of the state of the insured governs if equal 
owners fail to agree in writing upon a state of residence for jurisdictional purposes.b. A provider 
from this state who enters a life settlement contract with an owner who is a resident of another 
state that has enacted statutes or adopted regulations governing life settlement contracts is 
governed in the effectuation of that life settlement contract by the statutes and regulations of the 
owner's state of residence. If the state in which the owner is a resident has not enacted statutes or 
regulations governing life settlement contracts, the provider shall give the owner notice that 
neither state regulates the transaction upon which the owner is entering. For transactions in those 
states, however, the provider is to maintain all records required if the transactions were executed 
in the state of residence. The forms used in those states need not be approved by the 
commissioner.c. If there is a conflict in the laws that apply to an owner and a purchaser in any 
individual transaction, the laws of the state that apply to the owner shall take precedence and the 
provider shall comply with those laws. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-11 
Section 26.1-33.4-12 - Prohibited practices1. It is unlawful for any person to:a. Enter a life 
settlement contract if such person knows or reasonably should have known that the life insurance 
policy was obtained by means of a false, deceptive, or misleading application for such 
policy;b. Engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business if such person knows or 
reasonably should have known that the intent was to avoid the notice requirements of this 
chapter;c. Engage in any fraudulent act or practice in connection with any transaction relating to 
any settlement involving an owner who is a resident of this state;d. Issue, solicit, market, or 
otherwise promote the purchase of an insurance policy for the purpose of or with an emphasis on 
settling the policy;e. Enter a premium finance agreement with any person or agency, or any 
person affiliated with such person or agency, pursuant to which such person shall receive any 
proceeds, fees, or other consideration, directly or indirectly, from the policy or owner of the 
policy or any other person with respect to the premium finance agreement or any settlement 
contract or other transaction related to such policy that are in addition to the amounts required to 
pay the principal, interest, and service charges related to policy premiums pursuant to the 
premium finance agreement or subsequent sale of such agreement; provided, further, that any 
payments, charges, fees, or other amounts in addition to the amounts required to pay the 
principal, interest, and service charges related to policy premiums paid under the premium 
finance agreement must be remitted to the original owner of the policy or to the original owner's 
estate if the original owner is not living at the time of the determination of the 
overpayment;f. With respect to any settlement contract or insurance policy and a broker, 
knowingly solicit an offer from, effectuate a life settlement contract with, or make a sale to any 
provider, financing entity, or related provider trust that is controlling, controlled by, or under 
common control with such broker;g. With respect to any life settlement contract or insurance 
policy and a provider, knowingly enter into a life settlement contract with an owner, if, in 
connection with such life settlement contract, anything of value will be paid to a broker that is 
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such provider or the financing entity or 
related provider trust that is involved in such settlement contract;h. With respect to a provider, 

enter into a life settlement contract unless the life settlement promotional, advertising, and 
marketing materials, as may be prescribed by regulation, have been filed with the commissioner. 
In no event may any marketing materials expressly reference that the insurance is "free" for any 
period of time. The inclusion of any reference in the marketing materials that would cause an 
owner to reasonably believe that the insurance is free for any period of time must be considered a 
violation of this chapter; ori. With respect to any life insurance producer, insurance company, 
broker, or provider, make any statement or representation to the applicant or policyholder in 
connection with the sale or financing of a life insurance policy to the effect that the insurance is 
free or without cost to the policyholder for any period of time unless provided in the policy.2. A 
violation of this section is deemed a fraudulent life settlement act. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-12 
 
Section 26.1-33.4-13 - Fraud prevention and control1.a. A person may not commit a fraudulent 
life settlement act.b. A person may not knowingly and intentionally interfere with the 
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or investigations of suspected or actual violations 
of this chapter.c. A person in the business of life settlements may not knowingly or intentionally 
permit any person convicted of a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust to participate in 
the business of life settlements.2.a. Life settlement contracts and applications for life settlement 
contracts, regardless of the form of transmission, must contain the following statement or a 
substantially similar statement: 
Any person that knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance or life 
settlement contract is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in prison. 
b. The lack of a statement as required in subdivision a does not constitute a defense in any 
prosecution for a fraudulent life settlement act.3.a. Any person engaged in the business of life 
settlements having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent life settlement act is being, 
will be, or has been committed shall provide to the commissioner the information required by 
and in a manner prescribed by the commissioner.b. Any other person having knowledge or a 
reasonable belief that a fraudulent life settlement act is being, will be, or has been committed 
may provide to the commissioner the information required by and in a manner prescribed by the 
commissioner.4.a. Civil liability may not be imposed on and no cause of action may arise from a 
person's furnishing information concerning suspected, anticipated, or completed fraudulent life 
settlement acts or suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts if the information is provided 
to or received from:(1) The commissioner or the commissioner's employees, agents, or 
representatives;(2) Federal, state, or local law enforcement or regulatory officials or their 
employees, agents, or representatives;(3) A person involved in the prevention and detection of 
fraudulent life settlement acts or that person's agents, employees, or representatives;(4) Any 
regulatory body or its employees, agents, or representatives overseeing life insurance, life 
settlements, securities, or investment fraud;(5) The life insurer that issued the life insurance 
policy covering the life of the insured; or(6) The licensee and any agents, employees, or 
representatives.b. Subdivision a does not apply to statements made with actual malice. In an 
action brought against a person for filing a report or furnishing other information concerning a 
fraudulent life settlement act or a fraudulent insurance act, the party bringing the action shall 
plead specifically any allegation that subdivision a does not apply because the person filing the 
report or furnishing the information did so with actual malice.c. A person identified in 

subdivision a is entitled to an award of attorney's fees and costs if that person is the prevailing 
party in a civil cause of action for libel, slander, or any other relevant tort arising out of activities 
in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the party bringing the action was not 
substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of this section, a proceeding is "substantially 
justified" if the proceeding had a reasonable basis in law or fact at the time the proceeding was 
initiated.d. This section does not abrogate or modify common law or statutory privileges or 
immunities enjoyed by a person described in subdivision a.5.a. The documents and evidence 
provided pursuant to subsection 4 or obtained by the commissioner in an investigation of 
suspected or actual fraudulent life settlement acts is privileged and confidential and may not be a 
public record and may not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal 
action.b. Subdivision a does not prohibit release by the commissioner of documents and 
evidence obtained in an investigation of suspected or actual fraudulent life settlement acts:(1) In 
administrative or judicial proceedings to enforce laws administered by the commissioner;(2) To 
federal, state, or local law enforcement or regulatory agencies, to an organization established for 
the purpose of detecting and preventing fraudulent life settlement acts, or to the national 
association of insurance commissioners; or(3) At the discretion of the commissioner, to a person 
in the business of life settlements that is aggrieved by a fraudulent life settlement act.c. Release 
of documents and evidence under subdivision b does not abrogate or modify the privilege 
granted in subdivision a.6. This chapter does not:a. Preempt the authority or relieve the duty of 
other law enforcement or regulatory agencies to investigate, examine, and prosecute suspected 
violations of law;b. Preempt, supersede, or limit any provision of any state securities law or any 
rule, order, or notice issued thereunder;c. Prevent or prohibit a person from disclosing voluntarily 
information concerning life settlement fraud to a law enforcement or regulatory agency other 
than the insurance department; ord. Limit the powers granted elsewhere by the laws of this state 
to the commissioner or an insurance fraud unit to investigate and examine possible violations of 
law and to take appropriate action against wrongdoers.7.a. Providers and brokers shall have in 
place antifraud initiatives reasonably calculated to detect, prosecute, and prevent fraudulent life 
settlement acts. The commissioner may order, or a licensee may request and the commissioner 
may grant, such modifications of the following required initiatives as necessary to ensure an 
effective antifraud program. The modifications may be more or less restrictive than the required 
initiatives so long as the modifications may reasonably be expected to accomplish the purpose of 
this section. Antifraud initiatives include:(1) Fraud investigators, who may be provider or broker 
employees or independent contractors; and(2) An antifraud plan, which must be submitted to the 
commissioner. The antifraud plan must include:(a) A description of the procedures for detecting 
and investigating possible fraudulent life settlement acts and procedures for resolving material 
inconsistencies between medical records and insurance applications;(b) A description of the 
procedures for reporting possible fraudulent life settlement acts to the commissioner;(c) A 
description of the plan for antifraud education and training of underwriters and other personnel; 
and(d) A description or chart outlining the organizational arrangement of the antifraud personnel 
who are responsible for the investigation and reporting of possible fraudulent life settlement acts 
and investigating unresolved material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance 
applications.b. Antifraud plans submitted to the commissioner are privileged and confidential 
and are not a public record and may not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal 
action. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-13 

Section 26.1-33.4-14 - Injunctions - Civil remedies - Cease and desist1. In addition to the 
penalties and other enforcement provisions of this chapter, if any person violates this chapter or 
any rule implementing this chapter, the commissioner may seek an injunction in a court of 
competent jurisdiction in the county where the person resides or has a principal place of business 
and may apply for temporary and permanent orders that the commissioner determines necessary 
to restrain the person from further committing the violation.2. Any person damaged by the acts 
of another person in violation of this chapter or any rule or regulation implementing this chapter 
may bring a civil action for damages against the person committing the violation in a court of 
competent jurisdiction.3. The commissioner may issue a cease and desist order upon a person 
that violates any provision of this part, any rule or order adopted by the commissioner, or any 
written agreement entered into with the commissioner in accordance with chapter 28-32.4. When 
the commissioner finds that such an action presents an immediate danger to the public and 
requires an immediate final order, the commissioner may issue an emergency cease and desist 
order reciting with particularity the facts underlying such findings. The emergency cease and 
desist order is effective immediately upon service of a copy of the order on the respondent and 
remains effective for ninety days. If the commissioner begins nonemergency cease and desist 
proceedings under subsection 1, the emergency cease and desist order remains effective, absent 
an order by an appellate court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to chapter 28-32. In the event 
of a willful violation of this chapter, the trial court may award statutory damages in addition to 
actual damages in an additional amount up to three times the actual damage award. The 
provisions of this chapter may not be waived by agreement. A choice of law provision may not 
be utilized to prevent the application of this chapter to any settlement in which a party to the 
settlement is a resident of this state. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-14 
Section 26.1-33.4-15 - Penalties1. It is a violation of this chapter for any person, provider, 
broker, or any other party related to the business of life settlements to commit a fraudulent life 
settlement act.2. For criminal liability purposes, a person that commits a fraudulent life 
settlement act is guilty of committing insurance fraud.3. The commissioner may levy a civil 
penalty not exceeding fifty thousand dollars per violation and the amount of the claim for each 
violation upon any person, including those persons and their employees licensed pursuant to this 
chapter, who is found to have committed a fraudulent life settlement act or violated any other 
provision of this chapter.4. The license of a person licensed under this chapter which commits a 
fraudulent life settlement act must be revoked. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-15 
 
Section 26.1-33.4-16 - Unfair trade practices 
A violation of this chapter is considered an unfair trade practice pursuant to state law and subject 
to the penalties provided by state law. 
N.D.C.C. § 26.1-33.4-16 
 
