CHAPTER 229
AN ACT concerning certain viatical settlements, supplementing Title17B of the New Jersey
Statutes, amending P.L.1967, c.93 and repealing P.L.1999, c.211.
BE IT ENACTED by the Senate and General Assembly of the State of New Jersey:
C.17B:30B-1 Short title.
1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the "Viatical Settlements Act."
C.17B:30B-2 Definitions relative to viatical settlements.
2. As used in this act:
"Advertising" means any written, electronic or printed communication or any communication
by means of recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio, television, the Internet or
similar communications media, including film strips, motion pictures and videos, published,
disseminated, circulated or placed before the public, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of
creating an interest in or inducing a person to sell a life insurance policy pursuant to a viatical
settlement contract.
"Business of viatical settlements" means an activity involved in, but not limited to, the
offering, solicitation, negotiation, procurement, effectuation, financing, monitoring, tracking,
underwriting, selling, transferring, assigning, pledging, hypothecating of, or in any other manner
involving, viatical settlement contracts.
"Chronically ill" means:
(1) Being unable to perform at least two activities of daily living, including, but not limited,
to eating, toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing or continence;
(2) Requiring substantial supervision to protect the individual from threats to health and
safety due to severe cognitive impairment; or
(3) Having a level of disability similar to that described in paragraph (1) of this subsection
as determined by the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services.
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Banking and Insurance.
"Department" means the Department of Banking and Insurance.
"Financing entity" means:
(1) an underwriter, placement agent, lender, purchaser of securities, purchaser of a policy
from a viatical settlement provider, credit enhancer, or any entity that has a direct ownership in
a policy that is the subject of a viatical settlement contract but:
(a) whose principal activity related to the transaction is providing funds to effect the viatical
settlement contract or purchase of one or more viaticated policies; and
(b) who has an agreement in writing with one or more licensed viatical settlement providers
to finance the acquisition of viatical settlement contracts.
(2) "Financing entity" does not include a non-accredited investor or purchaser of a policy
from a viatical settlement provider.
"Fraudulent viatical settlement act" means and includes:
(1) Acts or omissions committed by any person who, knowingly or with intent to defraud,
for the purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, commits, or permits its
employees or its agents to engage in acts including:
(a) Presenting, causing to be presented or preparing with knowledge or belief that it will be
presented to or by a viatical settlement provider, life insurance producer, financing entity, insurer
or any other person, false material information, or concealing material information, as part of,
in support of or concerning a fact material to one or more of the following:
(i) An application for the issuance of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy;
(ii) The underwriting of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy;
(iii) A claim for payment or benefit pursuant to a viatical settlement contract or insurance
policy;
(iv) Premiums paid on an insurance policy;
(v) Payments and changes in ownership or beneficiary made in accordance with the terms of
a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy;
(vi) The reinstatement or conversion of an insurance policy;
(vii) The solicitation, offer, effectuation or sale of a settlement contract or insurance policy;
(viii) The issuance of written evidence of a viatical settlement contract or insurance; orP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
2
(ix) A financing transaction;
(b) Employing any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud related to viaticated policies;
(2) In the furtherance of a fraud or to prevent the detection of a fraud any person commits
or permits its employees or its agents to:
(a) Remove, conceal, alter, destroy or sequester from the commissioner the assets or records
of a viatical settlement provider licensee or other person engaged in the business of viatical
settlements;
(b) Misrepresent or conceal the financial condition of a licensee, financing entity, insurer or
other person;
(c) Transact the business of viatical settlements in violation of laws requiring a license,
certificate of authority or other legal authority for the transaction of the business of viatical
settlements; or
(d) File with the commissioner or the chief insurance regulatory official of another
jurisdiction a document containing false information or otherwise concealing information about
a material fact from the commissioner;
(3) Embezzlement, theft, misappropriation or conversion of monies, funds, premiums, credits
or other property of a viatical settlement provider, insurer, insured, viator, insurance policy
owner or any other person engaged in the business of viatical settlements or insurance;
(4) Recklessly entering into, brokering or otherwise dealing in a viatical settlement contract,
the subject of which is a life insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false information
concerning any fact material to the policy or by concealing, for the purpose of misleading
another, information concerning any fact material to the policy, where the viator or the viator's
agent intended to defraud the policy's issuer. For the purposes of this paragraph, "recklessly"
means engaging in the conduct in conscious and clearly unjustifiable disregard of a substantial
likelihood of the existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross
deviation from acceptable standards of conduct; or
(5) Attempting to commit, assisting, aiding or abetting in the commission of, or conspiracy
to commit the acts or omissions specified in this subsection.
"Life insurance producer" means any person licensed as a resident or nonresident insurance
producer with a life insurance line of authority pursuant to the "New Jersey Insurance Producer
Licensing Act of 2001," P.L.2001, c.210 (C.17:22A-26 et seq.).
"Person" means a natural person or a legal entity, including, but not limited to, an individual,
partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, association, trust or
corporation.
"Policy" means an individual or group policy, group certificate, contract or arrangement of
life insurance affecting the rights of a resident of this State or bearing a reasonable relation to
this State, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this State.
"Related provider trust" means a titling trust or other trust established by a licensed viatical
settlement provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose of holding the ownership or
beneficial interest in viaticated policies in connection with a financing transaction. The trust shall
have a written agreement with the licensed viatical settlement provider under which the licensed
viatical settlement provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and
regulatory requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files related
to viatical settlement transactions available to the commissioner as if those records and files were
maintained directly by the licensed viatical settlement provider.
"Special purpose entity" means a corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company or
other similar entity formed solely to provide, either directly or indirectly, access to institutional
capital markets for a financing entity or licensed viatical settlement provider.
"Terminally ill" means having an illness or sickness that can reasonably be expected to result
in death in 24 months or less.
"Viatical settlement contract" means a written agreement establishing the terms under which
compensation or anything of value will be paid, which compensation or value is less than the
expected death benefit of the policy, in return for the viator's assignment, transfer, sale, devise
or bequest of the death benefit or ownership of any portion of the policy. A viatical settlement
contract also includes a contract for a loan or other financing transaction with a viator securedP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
3
primarily by an individual or group life insurance policy, other than a loan by a life insurance
company pursuant to the terms of the life insurance contract, or a loan secured by the cash value
of a policy. A viatical settlement contract includes an agreement with a viator to transfer
ownership or change the beneficiary designation at a later date regardless of the date that
compensation is paid to the viator. A viatical settlement contract does not mean or include a
written agreement between a viator and a person having an insurable interest in the insured's life.
A viatical settlement contract shall not include any accelerated benefit pursuant to the terms of
a life insurance policy issued in accordance with Title 17B of the New Jersey Statutes.
"Viatical settlement provider" means a person, other than a viator, that enters into or
effectuates a viatical settlement contract. Viatical settlement provider does not include:
(1) A bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union or other licensed lending
institution that takes an assignment of a life insurance policy as collateral for a loan;
(2) The issuer of a life insurance policy providing accelerated benefits pursuant to regulations
prescribed by the commissioner and pursuant to the policy;
(3) An authorized or eligible insurer that provides stop loss coverage to a viatical settlement
provider, financing entity, special purpose entity or related provider trust;
(4) A natural person who enters into or effectuates no more than one agreement in a calendar
year for the transfer of life insurance policies for any value less than the expected death benefit;
(5) A financing entity;
(6) A special purpose entity;
(7) A related provider trust; or
(8) An accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in
Regulation D, Rule 501 (17 C.F.R. 230.501 through 230.508) or Rule 144A (17 C.F.R.
230.144A) of the federal "Securities Act of 1933"(15 U.S.C. s.77a et seq.) as amended, and who
purchases a viaticated policy from a viatical settlement provider.
"Viaticated policy" means a life insurance policy or certificate that has been acquired by a
viatical settlement provider pursuant to a viatical settlement contract.
"Viator" means the owner of a policy who enters or seeks to enter into a viatical settlement
contract. For the purposes of this act, a viator shall not be limited to an owner of a policy
insuring the life of an individual with a terminal or chronic illness or condition except where
specifically addressed. If there is more than one viator on a single policy and the viators are
residents of different states, the transaction shall be governed by the law of the state in which
the viator having the largest percentage ownership resides or, if the viators hold equal
ownership, the state of residence of one viator agreed upon in writing by all viators. Viator shall
not include:
(1) A viatical settlement provider licensed under this act;
(2) An accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in
Regulation D, Rule 501 (17 C.F.R. 230.501 through 230.508) or Rule 144A (17 C.F.R.
230.144A) of the federal "Securities Act of 1933"(15 U.S.C. s.77a et seq.), as amended;
(3) A financing entity;
(4) A special purpose entity; or
(5) A related provider trust.
C.17B:30B-3 License to operate as viatical settlement provider.
3. a. A person shall not operate as a viatical settlement provider without first obtaining a
license from the commissioner of the state of residence of the viator.
b. (1) No person shall act on behalf of a viator residing in this State, or otherwise negotiate,
as that term is defined in section 3 of P.L.2001, c.210 (C.17:22A-28), viatical settlement
contracts between a viator residing in this State and one or more viatical settlement providers
unless that person is licensed as a life insurance producer pursuant to the "New Jersey Insurance
Producer Licensing Act of 2001," P.L.2001, c.210 (C.17:22A-26 et seq.) and has been licensed
as a resident insurance producer in his home state for not less than one year.
(2) Irrespective of the manner in which the life insurance producer is compensated, a life
insurance producer is deemed to represent only the viator and not the viatical settlement provider
or any insurer, and owes a fiduciary duty to the viator to act according to the viator'sP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
4
instructions and in the best interest of the viator.
(3) Not later than 30 days from the first day of negotiating a viatical settlement contract on
behalf of a viator, such producer shall notify the commissioner of that activity on a form or in
a manner that may be prescribed by, and shall pay any applicable fees determined by, the
commissioner by regulation. The notification shall include an acknowledgment by the producer
that he will operate in accordance with the provisions of this act.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, a person licensed as an attorney, or a
certified public accountant, representing a viator, and whose compensation is not paid directly
or indirectly by the viatical settlement provider, may negotiate a viatical settlement contract
without a license as a life insurance producer.
c. Application for a viatical settlement provider license pursuant to subsection a. of this
section shall be made to the commissioner by the applicant on a form prescribed by the
commissioner, and the application shall be accompanied by a fee, the amount of which shall be
set by the commissioner by regulation, provided, however, that the license and renewal fees for
a viatical settlement license shall not exceed that established by law or regulation for a domestic
stock life insurance company.
d. A viatical settlement provider license may be renewed from year to year on the
anniversary date upon payment of the annual renewal fee in an amount set by the commissioner
by regulation. Failure to pay the fee by the renewal date shall result in expiration of the license.
e. The applicant for a license pursuant to subsection a. of this section shall provide
information on forms required by the commissioner. The commissioner shall have the authority,
at any time, to require the applicant to fully disclose the identity of all stockholders except those
owning fewer than five percent of the shares of an applicant whose shares are publicly traded,
partners, officers, members and employees, and the commissioner may, in his discretion, refuse
to issue a license in the name of a legal entity if not satisfied that any officer, employee,
stockholder, partner or member thereof who may materially influence the applicant's conduct
meets the standards of this act.
f. A license pursuant to subsection a. of this section issued to a legal entity authorizes all
partners, officers, members and designated employees to act as viatical settlement providers,
under the license, and all those persons shall be named in the application and any supplements
to the application.
g. Upon the filing of an application and the payment of the license fee, the commissioner
shall make an investigation of each applicant and issue a license if the commissioner finds that
the applicant:
(1) Has provided a detailed plan of operation;
(2) Is competent and trustworthy and intends to act in good faith in the capacity involved by
the license applied for;
(3) Has a good business reputation and has had experience, training or education so as to be
qualified in the business for which the license is applied for;
(4) If a legal entity, provides a certificate of good standing from the state of its domicile; and
(5) Has provided an anti-fraud plan that meets the requirements of section 12 of this act.
h. The commissioner shall not issue a license to a nonresident applicant unless a written
designation of an agent for service of process is filed and maintained with the commissioner, or
the applicant has filed with the commissioner, the applicant's written irrevocable consent that any
action against the applicant may be commenced against the applicant by service of process on
the commissioner.
i. A viatical settlement provider shall provide to the commissioner any new or revised
information about officers, stockholders holding 10% or more of the outstanding shares,
partners, directors, members or designated employees within 30 days of the change.
C.17B:30B-4 Refusal to issue, suspension, revocation, refusal to renew license.
4. a. The commissioner may refuse to issue, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license
of a viatical settlement provider, if the commissioner finds that:
(1) There was any material misrepresentation in the application for the license;
(2) The licensee or any officer, partner, member or key management personnel has beenP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
5
convicted of fraudulent or dishonest practices, is subject to a final administrative action or is
otherwise shown to be untrustworthy or incompetent to act as a licensee;
(3) The licensee demonstrates a pattern of unreasonable payments to viators;
(4) The licensee or any officer, partner, member or key management personnel has been
found guilty of, or has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, any felony, or to a misdemeanor
involving fraud or moral turpitude, regardless of whether a judgment of conviction has been
entered by the court;
(5) The licensee has entered into any settlement contract that has not been approved pursuant
to this act;
(6) The licensee has failed to honor contractual obligations set out in a viatical settlement
contract;
(7) The licensee no longer meets the requirements for initial licensure;
(8) The licensee has assigned, transferred or pledged a viaticated policy to a person other
than a viatical settlement provider licensed in this State, an accredited investor or qualified
institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 (17 C.F.R. 230.501 through
230.508) or Rule 144A (17 C.F.R. 230.144A) of the federal "Securities Act of 1933"(15 U.S.C.
s.77a et seq.), as amended, financing entity, special purpose entity or related provider trust; or
(9) The licensee or any officer, partner, member or key management personnel has violated
any provision of this act.
b. The commissioner may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license of a life insurance
producer if the commissioner finds that the life insurance producer has violated the provisions
of this act.
c. Before the commissioner denies a license application or suspends, revokes or refuses to
renew the license of a viatical settlement provider or suspends, revokes or refuses to renew the
license of a life insurance producer pursuant to this act, the commissioner shall conduct a hearing
in accordance with the "Administrative Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.).
C.17B:30B-5 Approval of viatical settlement forms by commissioner.
5. A person shall not use a viatical settlement contract form or provide a disclosure
statement or application form to a viator in this State unless it has been filed with and approved
by the commissioner. The commissioner shall disapprove a viatical settlement contract form or
disclosure statement form if, in the commissioner's opinion, the contract form, disclosure form,
or provisions contained therein are unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public, or
otherwise misleading or unfair to the viator. The commissioner may require the submission of
advertising material used in connection with a viatical settlement contract.
C.17B:30B-6 Filing of annual statement.
6. a. Each viatical settlement provider licensee shall file with the commissioner on or before
March 1 of each year an annual statement containing that information which the commissioner
by regulation may prescribe. This information is limited to only those transactions in which the
viator is a resident of this State and shall not include individual transaction data or data which
compromises the privacy of personal, financial, and health information of the viator or insured.
b. Except as otherwise allowed or required by law, a viatical settlement provider, insurance
company, life insurance producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, or any other
person with actual knowledge of the identity of the insured, shall not disclose that identity, or
the insured's financial or medical information, to any other person unless the disclosure:
(1) Is necessary to effect a viatical settlement contract between the viator and a viatical
settlement provider and the viator and insured have provided prior written consent to the
disclosure;
(2) Is provided in response to an investigation or examination by the commissioner or any
other governmental officer or agency or pursuant to the requirements of subsection e. of section
12 of this act;
(3) Is a term of or condition to the transfer of a policy by one viatical settlement provider to
another viatical settlement provider;
(4) Is necessary to permit a financing entity, related provider trust or special purpose entityP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
6
to finance the purchase of policies by a viatical settlement provider and the viator and insured
have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;
(5) Is necessary to allow the viatical settlement provider or its authorized representative to
make contacts for the purpose of determining health status; or
(6) Is required to purchase stop loss coverage.
c. In addition to the information required in this section, the commissioner may require that
either or both viatical settlement providers and life insurance producers provide to the
commissioner that information the commissioner determines by regulation, regarding the amount
and method of compensation paid to life insurance producers for negotiating a viatical settlement
contract pursuant to this act.
C.17B:30B-7 Examinations of licensees by commissioner.
7. a. (1) The commissioner may conduct an examination of a licensee under this act as often
as the commissioner, in his sole discretion, deems appropriate.
(2) For purposes of completing an examination of a licensee under this act, the commissioner
may examine or investigate any person, or the business of any person, insofar as the examination
or investigation is, in the sole discretion of the commissioner, necessary or material to the
examination of the licensee.
(3) In lieu of an examination under this act of any foreign or alien licensee licensed in this
State, the commissioner may, at the commissioner's discretion, accept an examination report on
the licensee as prepared by the commissioner or other regulator for the licensee's state of
domicile or port-of-entry state.
b. (1) A person required to be licensed by this act shall for five years retain copies of all:
(a) Proposed, offered or executed viatical settlement contracts, underwriting documents,
policy forms and applications from the date of the proposal, offer, or execution of the viatical
settlement contract, whichever is later;
(b) All checks, drafts or other evidence and documentation related to the payment, transfer,
deposit or release of funds from the date of the transaction; and
(c) All other records and documents related to the requirements of this act.
(2) This subsection shall not relieve a person of the obligation to produce these documents
to the commissioner after the retention period has expired if that person has retained the
documents.
(3) Records required to be retained pursuant to this subsection shall be legible and complete
and may be retained in paper, photograph, microprocess, magnetic, mechanical or electronic
media, or by any process that accurately reproduces or forms a durable medium for the
reproduction of a record.
c. (1) Upon determining that an examination should be conducted, the commissioner shall
issue an examination warrant appointing one or more examiners to perform the examination and
instructing them as to the scope of the examination. In conducting the examination, the examiner
shall observe those guidelines and procedures set forth in the Examiners' Handbook adopted by
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The commissioner may also
employ other guidelines or procedures as the commissioner deems appropriate.
(2) Every licensee or person from whom information is sought, its officers, directors and
agents shall provide to the examiners timely, convenient and free access at all reasonable hours
at its offices to all books, records, accounts, papers, documents, assets and computer or other
recordings relating to the property, assets, business and affairs of the licensee being examined.
The officers, directors, employees and agents of the licensee or person shall facilitate the
examination and aid in the examination so far as it is in their power to do so. The refusal of a
licensee, by its officers, directors, employees or agents, to submit to examination or to comply
with any reasonable written request of the commissioner shall be grounds for suspension or
refusal of, or nonrenewal of any license or authority held by the licensee to engage in the
business of viatical settlements or other business subject to the commissioner's jurisdiction. Any
proceedings for suspension, revocation or refusal of any license or authority shall be conducted
pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.).
(3) The commissioner shall have the power to issue subpoenas, to administer oaths and toP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
7
examine under oath any person as to any matter pertinent to the examination. Upon the failure
or refusal of a person to obey a subpoena, the commissioner may petition a court of competent
jurisdiction, and upon proper showing, the court may enter an order compelling the witness to
appear and testify or produce documentary evidence. Failure to obey the court order shall be
punishable as contempt of court.
(4) When making an examination under this act, the commissioner may retain attorneys,
appraisers, independent actuaries, independent certified public accountants or other professionals
and specialists as examiners, the reasonable cost of which shall be borne by the licensee that is
the subject of the examination.
(5) Nothing contained in this act shall be construed to limit the commissioner's authority to
terminate or suspend an examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory action pursuant
to the insurance laws of this State. Findings of fact and conclusions made pursuant to any
examination shall be prima facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action.
(6) Nothing contained in this act shall be construed to limit the commissioner's authority to
use and, if appropriate, to make public any final or preliminary examination report, any examiner
or licensee work papers or other documents, or any other information discovered or developed
during the course of any examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action which
the commissioner may, in his or her sole discretion, deem appropriate.
d. (1) Examination reports shall be comprised of only facts appearing upon the books, records
or other documents of the licensee, its agents or other persons examined, or as ascertained from
the testimony of its officers or agents or other persons examined concerning its affairs, and such
conclusions and recommendations as the examiners find reasonably warranted from the facts.
(2) No later than 60 days following completion of the examination, the examiner in charge
shall file with the commissioner a verified written report of examination under oath. Upon receipt
of the verified report, the commissioner shall transmit the report to the licensee examined,
together with a notice that shall afford the licensee examined a reasonable opportunity of not
more than 30 days to make a written submission or rebuttal with respect to any matters
contained in the examination report.
(3) Within 30 days of the end of the period allowed for the receipt of written submissions or
rebuttals, the commissioner shall fully consider and review the report, together with any written
submissions or rebuttals, and any relevant portions of the examiner's workpapers and either:
(a) Adopt the examination as filed or with modification or corrections. If the examination
report reveals that the company is operating in violation of any law, regulation or prior order of
the commissioner, the commissioner may order the company to take any action the commissioner
considers necessary and appropriate to cure the violation; or
(b) Reject the examination report with directions to the examiners to reopen the examination
for purposes of obtaining additional data, documentation or information, and refiling pursuant
to paragraph (1) of this subsection; or
(c) Call for an investigatory hearing with no less than 20 days' notice to the company for
purposes of obtaining additional documentation, data, information and testimony.
(4) (a) All determinations made pursuant to subparagraph (a) of paragraph (3) of this
subsection shall be accompanied by findings and conclusions resulting from the commissioner's
consideration and review of the examination report, relevant examiner workpapers and any
written submissions or rebuttals. Any such determination shall be served upon the company,
together with a copy of the adopted examination report. Within 30 days of the issuance of the
adopted report, the company shall file affidavits executed by each of its directors stating under
oath that they have received a copy of the adopted report and related orders.
(b) Any hearing under subparagraph (c) of paragraph (3) of this subsection shall be
conducted by the commissioner or an authorized representative of the commissioner as a
nonadversarial, confidential investigatory proceeding, as necessary for the resolution of any
inconsistencies, discrepancies or disputed issues apparent upon the face of the filed examination
report or raised by or as a result of the commissioner's review of relevant workpapers or by the
written submission or rebuttal of the company. Within 20 days of the conclusion of any such
hearing, the commissioner shall make a determination pursuant to subparagraph (a) of paragraph
(3) of this subsection.P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
8
(i) The hearing shall proceed expeditiously with discovery by the company limited to the
examiner's workpapers which tend to substantiate any assertions set forth in any written
submission or rebuttal. The commissioner or his representative may issue subpoenas for the
attendance of any witnesses or the production of any documents relevant to the investigation
whether under the control of the department, the company or other persons. Nothing contained
in this section shall require the department to disclose any information or records which would
indicate or show the existence or content of any investigation or activity of a criminal justice
agency.
(ii) The hearing shall proceed with the commissioner or his representative posing questions
to the persons subpoenaed. Thereafter the company and the department may present testimony
relevant to the investigation. Cross-examination shall be conducted only by the commissioner
or his representative. The company and the department shall be permitted to make closing
statements and may be represented by counsel of their choice.
(5) Upon the adoption of the examination report under subparagraph (a) of paragraph (3) of
this subsection, the commissioner may continue to hold the content of the examination report
as private and confidential information for a period of 90 days except to the extent provided in
paragraph (6) of subsection c. of this section.
(6) If the commissioner determines that regulatory action is appropriate as a result of an
examination, the commissioner may initiate any proceedings or actions provided by law.
e. (1) Names and individual identification data for all viators shall be considered private and
confidential information and shall not be disclosed by the commissioner, unless required by law.
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this act, all examination reports, working papers,
recorded information, documents and copies thereof produced by, obtained by or disclosed to
the commissioner or any other person in the course of an examination made under this act, or
in the course of analysis or investigation by the commissioner of the financial condition or market
conduct of a licensee shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to any State
or federal freedom of information law, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject
to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action. The commissioner is authorized
to use the documents, materials or other information in the furtherance of any regulatory or legal
action brought as part of the commissioner's official duties.
(3) Documents, materials or other information, including, but not limited to, all working
papers, and copies thereof, in the possession or control of the NAIC and its affiliates and
subsidiaries shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to subpoena, and
shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action if they are:
(a) Created, produced or obtained by or disclosed to the NAIC and its affiliates and
subsidiaries in the course of assisting an examination made under this act, or assisting the
commissioner in the analysis or investigation of the financial condition or market conduct of a
licensee; or
(b) Disclosed to the NAIC and its affiliates and subsidiaries under paragraph (4) of this
subsection by the commissioner.
(c) For the purposes of paragraph (2) of this subsection, "act" includes the law of another
state or jurisdiction that is substantially similar to this act.
(4) Neither the commissioner nor any person that received the documents, material or other
information while acting under the authority of the commissioner, including the NAIC and its
affiliates and subsidiaries, shall be permitted to testify in any private civil action concerning any
confidential documents, materials or information subject to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(5) In order to assist in the performance of the commissioner's duties, the commissioner:
(a) May share documents, materials or other information, including the confidential and
privileged documents, materials or information subject to paragraph (1) of this subsection, with
other state, federal and international regulatory agencies, with the NAIC and its affiliates and
subsidiaries, and with state, federal and international law enforcement authorities, provided that
the recipient agrees to maintain the confidentiality and privileged status of the document,
material, communication or other information; and
(b) May receive documents, materials, communications or information, including otherwise
confidential and privileged documents, materials or information, from the NAIC and its affiliatesP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
9
and subsidiaries, and from regulatory and law enforcement officials of other foreign or domestic
jurisdictions, and shall maintain as confidential or privileged any document, material or
information received with notice or the understanding that it is confidential or privileged under
the laws of the jurisdiction that is the source of the document, material or information.
(6) No waiver of any applicable privilege or claim of confidentiality in the documents,
materials or information shall occur as a result of disclosure to the commissioner under this
section or as a result of sharing as authorized in paragraph (5) of this subsection.
(7) A privilege established under the law of any state or jurisdiction that is substantially
similar to the privilege established under this subsection shall be available and enforced in any
proceeding in, and in any court of, this State.
(8) Nothing contained in this act shall prevent or be construed as prohibiting the
commissioner from disclosing the content of an examination report, preliminary examination
report or results, or any matter relating thereto, to the commissioner of any other state or
country, or to law enforcement officials of this or any other state or agency of the federal
government at any time or to the NAIC, so long as that agency or office receiving the report or
matters relating thereto agrees in writing to hold it confidential and in a manner consistent with
this act.
f. (1) An examiner may not be appointed by the commissioner if the examiner, either directly
or indirectly, has a conflict of interest or is affiliated with the management of or owns a
pecuniary interest in any person subject to examination under this act. This subsection shall not
be construed to automatically preclude an examiner from being:
(a) A viator;
(b) An insured in a viaticated insurance policy; or
(c) A beneficiary in an insurance policy that is proposed to be viaticated.
(2) Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, the commissioner may retain from
time to time, on an individual basis, qualified actuaries, certified public accountants, or other
similar individuals who are independently practicing their professions, even though these persons
may from time to time be similarly employed or retained by persons subject to examination under
this act.
g. (1) No cause of action shall arise nor shall any liability be imposed against the
commissioner, the commissioner's authorized representatives or any examiner appointed by the
commissioner for any statements made or conduct performed in good faith while carrying out
the provisions of this act.
(2) No cause of action shall arise nor shall any liability be imposed against any person for the
act of communicating or delivering information or data to the commissioner or the
commissioner's authorized representative or examiner pursuant to an examination made under
this act, if the act of communication or delivery was performed in good faith and without
fraudulent intent or the intent to deceive. This paragraph shall not abrogate or modify in any way
any common law or statutory privilege or immunity heretofore enjoyed by any person identified
in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(3) A person identified in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection shall be entitled to an award
of attorney's fees and costs if that person is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel,
slander or any other relevant tort arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of this
act and the party bringing the action was not substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of
this section, a proceeding is "substantially justified" if it had a reasonable basis in law or fact at
the time that it was initiated.
h. The commissioner may investigate suspected fraudulent viatical settlement acts and
persons engaged in the business of viatical settlements.
C.17B:30B-8 Disclosures to viator, procedure.
8. a. With each application for a viatical settlement, a viatical settlement provider or life
insurance producer shall provide the viator with at least the following disclosures no later than
the time the application for the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties. The
disclosures shall be provided in a separate document that is signed by the viator and the viatical
settlement provider, and shall provide the following information:P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
10
(1) There are possible alternatives to viatical settlement contracts, including any accelerated
death benefits or policy loans offered under the viator's life insurance policy;
(2) Some or all of the proceeds of the viatical settlement contract may be taxable under
federal income tax and state franchise and income taxes, and assistance should be sought from
a professional tax advisor;
(3) Proceeds of the viatical settlement contract could be subject to the claims of creditors;
(4) Receipt of the proceeds of a viatical settlement contract may adversely affect the viator's
eligibility for Medicaid or other government benefits or entitlements, and advice should be
obtained from the appropriate government agencies;
(5) The viator has the right to rescind a viatical settlement contract before the earlier of 30
calendar days after the date upon which the settlement contract is executed by all parties or 15
calendar days after the receipt of the viatical settlement proceeds by the viator, as provided in
subsection c. of section 9 of this act. If exercised by the viator, rescission is effective only if
both notice of the rescission is given and repayment of all proceeds and any premiums, loans and
loan interest to the settlement provider is made within the rescission period. If the insured dies
during the rescission period, the viatical settlement contract shall be deemed to have been
rescinded, subject to repayment of all viatical settlement proceeds and any premiums, loans and
loan interest to the viatical settlement provider;
(6) Funds will be sent to the viator within three business days after the viatical settlement
provider has received the insurer or group administrator's acknowledgment that ownership of
the policy has been transferred and the beneficiary has been designated pursuant to the viatical
settlement contract;
(7) Entering into a viatical settlement contract may cause other rights or benefits, including
conversion rights and waiver of premium benefits that may exist under the policy, to be forfeited
by the viator and that assistance should be sought from a financial adviser;
(8) Disclosure to a viator shall include distribution of a brochure, describing the process of
viatical settlements approved by the commissioner. The National Association of Insurance
Commissioners (NAIC) form for the brochure shall be used unless one is developed by the
commissioner;
(9) The disclosure document shall contain the following language:
"All medical, financial or personal information solicited or obtained by a viatical settlement
provider or life insurance producer about an insured, including the insured's identity or the
identity of family members, a spouse or a significant other, may be disclosed as necessary to
effect the viatical settlement between the viator and the viatical settlement provider. If you are
asked to provide this information, you will be asked to consent to the disclosure. The
information may be provided to someone who buys the policy or provides funds for the
purchase. You may be asked to renew your permission to share information every two years.";
and
(10) The insured may be contacted by the viatical settlement provider or its authorized
representative for the purpose of determining the insured's health status. This contact shall be
limited to once every three months if the insured has a life expectancy of more than one year, and
no more than once per month if the insured has a life expectancy of one year or less.
b. A viatical settlement provider shall provide the viator with at least the following
disclosures no later than the date the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties. The
disclosures shall be conspicuously displayed in the viatical settlement contract or in a separate
document signed by the viator and the viatical settlement provider and provide the following
information:
(1) State the affiliation, if any, between the viatical settlement provider and the issuer of the
insurance policy to be acquired pursuant to a viatical settlement contract;
(2) The document shall include the name, address and telephone number of the viatical
settlement provider;
(3) If the policy to be acquired pursuant to a viatical settlement contract has been issued as
a joint policy or involves family riders or any coverage of a life other than the insured under the
policy to be acquired pursuant to a viatical settlement contract, the viator shall be informed of
the possible loss of coverage on the other lives;P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
11
(4) State the dollar amount of the current death benefit payable to the viatical settlement
provider under the policy. The viatical settlement provider shall, if known, also disclose the
availability of any additional guaranteed insurance benefits, the dollar amount of any accidental
death and dismemberment benefits under the policy and the viatical settlement provider's interest
in those benefits; and
(5) State the name, business address and telephone number of the independent third party
escrow agent, and the fact that the viator or owner may inspect or receive copies of the relevant
escrow or trust agreements or documents.
c. If the viatical settlement provider transfers ownership or changes the beneficiary of the
policy, the viatical settlement provider shall communicate the change in ownership or beneficiary
to the insured within 20 days after the change.
C.17B:30B-9 Material required prior to entering into viatical settlement contract.
9. a. (1) A viatical settlement provider entering into a viatical settlement contract shall first
obtain:
(a) If the viator is the insured, a written statement from a licensed attending physician that
the viator is of sound mind and under no constraint or undue influence to enter into a viatical
settlement contract; and
(b) A document in which the insured consents to the release of his medical records to a
viatical settlement provider, life insurance producer and, if the policy was issued less than two
years from the date of application for a viatical settlement contract, to the insurance company
that issued the policy covering the life of the insured.
(2) The insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage submitted by a viatical
settlement provider not later than 30 calendar days after the date the request is received. The
request for verification of coverage shall be made on a form approved by the commissioner. The
insurer shall complete and issue the verification of coverage or indicate in which respects it is
unable to respond. In its response, the insurer shall indicate whether, based on the medical
evidence and documents provided, the insurer intends to pursue an investigation at that time
regarding the validity of the insurance contract.
(3) Prior to or at the time of execution of the viatical settlement contract, the viatical
settlement provider shall obtain a witnessed document in which the viator consents to the viatical
settlement contract, represents that the viator has a full and complete understanding of the
viatical settlement contract, that the viator has a full and complete understanding of the benefits
of the life insurance policy, acknowledges that the viator is entering into the viatical settlement
contract freely and voluntarily and, for persons with a terminal or chronic illness or condition,
acknowledges that the insured has a terminal or chronic illness and that the terminal or chronic
illness was diagnosed after the life insurance policy was issued.
(4) If a life insurance producer performs any of the activities required of the viatical
settlement provider, the viatical settlement provider is deemed to have fulfilled the requirements
of this section.
b. All medical information solicited or obtained by any licensee shall be subject to the
applicable provisions of State law relating to confidentiality of medical information.
c. All viatical settlement contracts entered into in this State shall provide the viator with an
unconditional right to rescind the contract before the earlier of 30 calendar days after the date
upon which the settlement contract is executed by all parties or 15 calendar days after the receipt
of the viatical settlement proceeds by the viator. If exercised by the viator, rescission is effective
only if both notice of the rescission is given and a full repayment of all proceeds and any
premiums, loans and loan interest to the settlement provider is made within the rescission period.
If the insured dies during the rescission period, the viatical settlement contract shall be deemed
to have been rescinded, subject to repayment to the viatical settlement provider or purchaser of
all viatical settlement proceeds, and any premiums, loans and loan interest that have been paid
by the settlement provider.
d. The viatical settlement provider shall instruct the viator to send the executed documents
required to effect the change in ownership, assignment or change in beneficiary directly to the
independent escrow agent. Within three business days after the date the escrow agent receivesP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
12
the documents (or from the date the viatical settlement provider receives the documents, if the
viator erroneously provides the documents directly to the provider), the provider shall pay or
transfer the proceeds of the viatical settlement into an escrow or trust account maintained in a
State or federally-chartered financial institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Upon payment of the settlement proceeds into the
escrow account, the escrow agent shall deliver the original change in ownership, assignment or
change in beneficiary forms to the viatical settlement provider or related provider trust. Upon
the escrow agent's receipt of the acknowledgment of the properly completed transfer of
ownership or designation of beneficiary from the insurance company, the escrow agent shall pay
the viatical settlement proceeds to the viator.
e. Failure to tender consideration to the viator for the viatical settlement contract within the
time disclosed pursuant to paragraph (6) of subsection a. of section 8 of this act renders the
viatical settlement contract voidable by the viator for lack of consideration until the time
consideration is tendered to and accepted by the viator.
f. Contacts with the insured for the purpose of determining the health status of the insured
by the viatical settlement provider after the viatical settlement has occurred shall only be made
by the settlement provider licensed in this State or its authorized representatives and shall be
limited to once every three months for insureds with a life expectancy of more than one year, and
to no more than once per month for insureds with a life expectancy of one year or less. The
provider shall explain to the insured the procedure for these contacts at the time the viatical
settlement contract is entered into. The limitations set forth in this subsection shall not apply
to any contacts with an insured for reasons other than determining the insured's health status.
Viatical settlement providers shall be responsible for the actions of their authorized
representatives.
g. If the insured is not terminally or chronically ill, viatical settlement providers shall pay
an amount greater than the cash surrender value or accelerated death benefit then available.
C.17B:30B-10 Two-year period required between issuance of policy and viatical settlement;
exceptions.
10. a. It is a violation of this act for any person to enter into a viatical settlement contract
within a two-year period commencing with the date of issuance of the insurance policy unless
the viator certifies to the viatical settlement provider that one or more of the following
conditions have been met within the two-year period:
(1) The policy was issued upon the viator's exercise of conversion rights arising out of a
group or individual life insurance policy, so long as the total amount of time covered under the
conversion policy plus the time covered under the prior policy is at least 24 months. The time
covered under a group policy shall be calculated without regard to any change in insurance
carriers, provided the coverage has been continuous and under the same group sponsorship;
(2) The viator submits independent evidence to the viatical settlement provider that within
the two-year period: (a) the viator or insured was terminally ill or chronically ill; or(b) the viator
or insured disposed of his ownership interests in a closely held corporation pursuant to a buyout
or other similar agreement in effect at the time the insurance policy was initially issued; or (c)
both.
b. Copies of the independent evidence described in paragraph (2) of subsection a. of this
section and documents required by subsection a. of section 9 of this act shall be submitted to the
insurer when the viatical settlement provider submits a request to the insurer for verification of
coverage. The copies shall be accompanied by a letter of attestation from the viatical settlement
provider that the copies are true and correct copies of the documents received by the viatical
settlement provider.
c. If the viatical settlement provider submits to the insurer a copy of the owner or insured's
certification described in subsection a. of this section when the provider submits a request to the
insurer to effect the transfer of the policy to the viatical settlement provider, the copy shall be
deemed to conclusively establish that the viatical settlement contract satisfies the requirements
of this section and the insurer shall timely respond to the request.P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
13
C.17B:30B-11 Advertisement of viatical settlement contracts; guidelines, standards.
11. The purpose of this section is to provide prospective viators with clear and unambiguous
statements in the advertisement of viatical settlement contracts and to assure the clear, truthful
and adequate disclosure of the benefits, risks, limitations and exclusions of any viatical
settlement contract. This purpose is intended to be accomplished by the establishment of
guidelines and standards of permissible and impermissible conduct in the advertising of viatical
settlement contracts to assure that product descriptions are presented in a manner that prevents
unfair, deceptive or misleading advertising and is conducive to accurate presentation and
description of viatical settlements through the advertising media and material used by licensees
under this act.
a. This section shall apply to any advertising of viatical settlement contracts or related
products or services intended for dissemination in this State, including Internet advertising
viewed by persons located in this State. Where disclosure requirements are established pursuant
to federal regulation, this section shall be interpreted so as to minimize or eliminate conflict with
federal regulation wherever possible.
b. Every viatical settlement provider licensee shall establish and at all times maintain a
system of control over the content, form and method of dissemination of all advertisements of
its contracts, products and services. All advertisements, regardless of by whom written, created,
designed or presented, shall be the responsibility of the viatical settlement provider licensee, as
well as the individual who created or presented the advertisement. A system of control shall
include regular, routine notification, at least once a year, to life insurance producers and others
authorized by the viatical settlement provider who disseminates advertisements, of the
requirements and procedures for approval prior to the use of any advertisements not furnished
by the viatical settlement provider.
c. Advertisements shall be truthful and not misleading in fact or by implication. The form
and content of an advertisement of a viatical settlement contract, product or service shall be
sufficiently complete and clear so as to avoid deception. It shall not have the capacity or
tendency to mislead or deceive. Whether an advertisement has the capacity or tendency to
mislead or deceive shall be determined by the commissioner from the overall impression that the
advertisement may be reasonably expected to create upon a person of average education or
intelligence within the segment of the public to which it is directed.
d. Certain advertisements are deemed false and misleading on their face and are prohibited.
False and misleading advertisements include, but are not limited to, the following
representations:
(1) "Guaranteed," "fully secured," "100 percent secured," "fully insured," "secure," "safe,"
"backed by rated insurance companies," "backed by federal law," "backed by state law," or "state
guaranty funds," or similar representations;
(2) "No risk," "minimal risk," "low risk," "no speculation," "no fluctuation," or similar
representations;
(3) "Qualified or approved for individual retirement accounts (IRAs), Roth IRAs, 401(k)
plans, simplified employee pensions (SEP), 403(b), Keogh plans, TSA, other retirement account
rollovers," "tax deferred," or similar representations;
(4) Utilization of the word "guaranteed" to describe the fixed return, annual return, principal,
earnings, profits, investment, or similar representations;
(5) "No sales charges or fees" or similar representations; and
(6) "High yield," "superior return," "excellent return," "high return," "quick profit," or similar
representations;
(7) Purported favorable representations or testimonials about the benefits of viatical
settlement contracts taken out of context from newspapers, trade papers, journals, radio and
television programs, and all other forms of print and electronic media.
e. The information required to be disclosed under this section shall not be minimized,
rendered obscure, or presented in an ambiguous fashion or intermingled with the text of the
advertisement so as to be confusing or misleading.
(1) An advertisement shall not omit material information or use words, phrases, statements,
references or illustrations if the omission or use has the capacity, tendency or effect ofP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
14
misleading or deceiving viators as to the nature or extent of any benefit, loss covered, premium
payable, or state or federal tax consequence. The fact that the viatical settlement contract offered
is made available for inspection prior to consummation of the sale, or an offer is made to refund
the payment if the viator is not satisfied or that the viatical settlement contract includes a "free
look" period that satisfies or exceeds legal requirements, does not remedy misleading statements.
(2) An advertisement shall not use the name or title of a life insurance company or a life
insurance policy unless the advertisement has been approved by the insurer.
(3) An advertisement shall not represent that premium payments will not be required to be
paid on the life insurance policy that is the subject of a viatical settlement contract in order to
maintain that policy, unless that is the fact.
(4) An advertisement shall not state or imply that interest charged on an accelerated death
benefit or a policy loan is unfair, inequitable or in any manner an incorrect or improper practice.
(5) The words "free," "no cost," "without cost," "no additional cost," "at no extra cost," or
words of similar import shall not be used with respect to any benefit or service unless true. An
advertisement may specify the charge for a benefit or a service or may state that a charge is
included in the payment or use other appropriate language.
(6) Testimonials, appraisals or analysis used in advertisements must be genuine; represent the
current opinion of the author; be applicable to the viatical settlement contract, product or service
advertised, if any, and be accurately reproduced with sufficient completeness to avoid misleading
or deceiving prospective viators as to the nature or scope of the testimonials, appraisal, analysis
or endorsement. In using testimonials, appraisals or analysis, the viatical settlement provider
licensee makes as its own all the statements contained therein, and the statements are subject to
all the provisions of this section.
(a) If the individual making a testimonial, appraisal, analysis or an endorsement has a
financial interest in the viatical settlement provider or related entity as a stockholder, director,
officer, employee or otherwise, or receives any benefit directly or indirectly other than required
union scale wages, that fact shall be prominently disclosed in the advertisement.
(b) An advertisement shall not state or imply that a viatical settlement contract, benefit or
service has been approved or endorsed by a group of individuals, society, association or other
organization unless that is the fact and unless any relationship between an organization and the
licensee is disclosed. If the entity making the endorsement or testimonial is owned, controlled
or managed by the licensee, or receives any payment or other consideration from the licensee for
making an endorsement or testimonial, that fact shall be disclosed in the advertisement.
(c) When an endorsement refers to benefits received under a viatical settlement contract all
pertinent information shall be retained for a period of five years after its use.
f. An advertisement shall not contain statistical information unless it accurately reflects
recent and relevant facts. The source of all statistics used in an advertisement shall be identified.
g. An advertisement shall not disparage insurers, viatical settlement providers, life insurance
producers, policies, services or methods of marketing.
h. The name of the licensee shall be clearly identified in all advertisements about the licensee
or its viatical settlement contract, products or services, and if any specific viatical settlement
contract is advertised, the viatical settlement contract shall be identified either by form number
or some other appropriate description. If an application is part of the advertisement, the name
of the viatical settlement provider shall be shown on the application.
i. An advertisement shall not use a trade name, group designation, name of the parent
company of a licensee, name of a particular division of the licensee, service mark, slogan, symbol
or other device or reference without disclosing the name of the licensee, if the advertisement
would have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity of the licensee,
or to create the impression that a company other than the licensee would have any responsibility
for the financial obligation under a viatical settlement contract.
j. An advertisement shall not use any combination of words, symbols or physical materials
that by their content, phraseology, shape, color or other characteristics are so similar to a
combination of words, symbols or physical materials used by a government program or agency
or otherwise appear to be of such a nature that they tend to mislead prospective viators into
believing that the solicitation is in some manner connected with a government program orP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
15
agency.
k. An advertisement may state that a licensee is licensed in the state where the advertisement
appears so long as it does not exaggerate that fact or suggest or imply that competing licensees
may not be so licensed. The advertisement may ask the audience to consult the licensee's website
or contact the department to find out if the state requires licensing and, if so, whether the viatical
settlement provider, or life insurance producer is licensed.
l. An advertisement shall not create the impression that the viatical settlement provider, its
financial condition or status, the payment of its claims or the merits, desirability, or advisability
of its viatical settlement contracts forms are recommended or endorsed by any government
entity.
m. The name of the actual licensee shall be stated in all of its advertisements. An
advertisement shall not use a trade name, any group designation, name of any affiliate or
controlling entity of the licensee, service mark, slogan, symbol or other device in a manner that
would have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity of the actual
licensee or create the false impression that an affiliate or controlling entity would have any
responsibility for the financial obligation of the licensee.
n. An advertisement shall not directly or indirectly create the impression that any division
or agency of the State or of the federal government endorses, approves or favors:
(1) Any viatical settlement provider licensee or its business practices or methods of
operation;
(2) The merits, desirability or advisability of any viatical settlement contract;
(3) Any viatical settlement contract; or
(4) Any life insurance policy or life insurance company.
o. If the advertiser emphasizes the speed with which the viatication will occur, the
advertising shall disclose the average time from the date of the completed application to the date
of offer and from acceptance of the offer to receipt of the funds by the viator.
p. If the advertising emphasizes the dollar amounts available to viators, the advertising shall
disclose the average purchase price as a percent of face value obtained by viators contracting
with the licensee during the past six months.
C.17B:30B-12 Fraudulent viatical settlement acts, prohibited, reporting, investigation,
prosecution.
12. a. A person shall not commit a fraudulent viatical settlement act as defined in section 2
of this act.
b. A person shall not knowingly or intentionally interfere with the enforcement of the
provisions of this act or investigations of suspected or actual violations of this act.
c. A person in the business of viatical settlements shall not knowingly or intentionally permit
any person convicted of a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust to participate in the
business of viatical settlements.
d. (1) Viatical settlement contracts and applications for viatical settlement contracts,
regardless of the form of transmission, shall contain the following statement or a substantially
similar statement: "Any person who knowingly presents false information in an application for
insurance or viatical settlement contract is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and
confinement in prison."
(2) The lack of a statement as required in paragraph (1) of this subsection does not constitute
a defense in any prosecution for a fraudulent viatical settlement act.
e. (1) Any person engaged in the business of viatical settlements having knowledge or a
reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical settlement act is being, will be or has been committed
shall provide to the commissioner the information required by, and in a manner prescribed by,
the commissioner.
(2) Any other person having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical
settlement act is being, will be or has been committed may provide to the commissioner the
information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the commissioner.
f. (1) No civil liability shall be imposed on and no cause of action shall arise from the
furnishing of information concerning suspected, anticipated or completed fraudulent viaticalP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
16
settlement acts or suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts, if the information is
provided to or received from:
(a) The commissioner or the commissioner's employees, agents or representatives;
(b) Federal, state or local law enforcement or regulatory officials or their employees, agents
or representatives;
(c) A person involved in the prevention and detection of fraudulent viatical settlement acts
or that person's agents, employees or representatives;
(d) The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), National Association of
Securities Dealers (NASD), the North American Securities Administration Association or their
employees, agents or representatives, or other regulatory body overseeing life insurance, viatical
settlements, securities or investment fraud; or
(e) The life insurer, including its agents and employees, that issued the life insurance policy
covering the life of the insured.
(2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to statements made with actual malice.
In an action brought against a person for filing a report or furnishing other information
concerning a fraudulent viatical settlement act or a fraudulent insurance act, the party bringing
the action shall plead specifically any allegation that paragraph (1) does not apply because the
person filing the report or furnishing the information did so with actual malice.
(3) A person identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be entitled to an award of
attorney's fees and costs if he is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel, slander
or any other relevant tort arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of this act and
the party bringing the action was not substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of this
section a proceeding is "substantially justified" if it had a reasonable basis in law or fact at the
time that it was initiated.
(4) This section does not abrogate or modify common law or statutory privileges or
immunities enjoyed by a person described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
g. (1) The documents and evidence provided pursuant to subsection e. of this section or
obtained by the commissioner in an investigation of suspected or actual fraudulent viatical
settlement acts shall be privileged and confidential and shall not be a public record and shall not
be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not prohibit release by the
commissioner of documents and evidence obtained in an investigation of suspected or actual
fraudulent viatical settlement acts:
(a) In administrative or judicial proceedings to enforce laws administered by the
commissioner;
(b) To federal, state or local law enforcement or regulatory agencies, to an organization
established for the purpose of detecting and preventing fraudulent viatical settlement acts or to
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC); or
(c) At the discretion of the commissioner, to a person in the business of viatical settlements
or the business of life insurance that is aggrieved by a fraudulent viatical settlement act.
(3) Release of documents and evidence under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall not
abrogate or modify the privilege granted in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
h. This act shall not:
(1) Preempt the authority or relieve the duty of other law enforcement or regulatory agencies
to investigate, examine and prosecute suspected violations of law;
(2) Prevent or prohibit a person from disclosing voluntarily information concerning a
fraudulent viatical settlement act to a law enforcement or regulatory agency other than the
department; or
(3) Limit the powers granted elsewhere by the laws of this State to the commissioner or the
Insurance Fraud Prosecutor to investigate and examine possible violations of law and to take
appropriate action against wrongdoers.
i. Viatical settlement providers shall have in place antifraud initiatives reasonably calculated
to detect, prosecute and prevent fraudulent viatical settlement acts. At the discretion of the
commissioner, the commissioner may order, or a licensee may request and the commissioner may
grant, modifications of the following required initiatives as necessary to ensure an effectiveP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
17
antifraud program. The modifications may be more or less restrictive than the required initiatives
so long as the modifications may reasonably be
expected to accomplish the purpose of this section. Antifraud initiatives shall include:
(1) Fraud investigators, who may be viatical settlement provider employees or independent
contractors; and
(2) An antifraud plan, which shall be submitted to the commissioner. The antifraud plan shall
include, but not be limited to:
(a) A description of the procedures for detecting and investigating possible fraudulent viatical
settlement acts and procedures for resolving material inconsistencies between medical records
and insurance applications;
(b) A description of the procedures for reporting possible fraudulent viatical settlement acts
to the commissioner;
(c) A description of the plan for antifraud education and training of underwriters and other
personnel; and
(d) A description or chart outlining the organizational arrangement of the antifraud personnel
who are responsible for the investigation and reporting of possible fraudulent viatical settlement
acts and investigating unresolved material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance
applications.
(3) Antifraud plans submitted to the commissioner shall be privileged and confidential and
shall not be a public record and shall not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or
criminal action.
(4) The commissioner may refer suspected fraudulent viatical settlement acts to the
Department of Law and Public Safety, Office of Insurance Fraud Prosecutor, for investigation,
prosecution or other action or disposition involving such suspected fraudulent viatical settlement
acts.
C.17B:30B-13 Injunction in addition to penalties, enforcement provisions.
13. a. In addition to the penalties and other enforcement provisions of this act, if any person
violates this act or any regulation implementing this act, the commissioner may seek an
injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction and may apply for temporary and permanent
orders that the commissioner determines are necessary to restrain the person from committing
the violation.
b. Any person damaged by the acts of a person in violation of this act may bring a civil
action against the person committing the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
c. The commissioner may issue, in accordance with the "Administrative Procedure Act,"
P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.), a cease and desist order upon a person that violates any
provision of this act, any regulation or order adopted by the commissioner, or any written
agreement entered into with the commissioner.
d. When the commissioner finds that an activity in violation of this act presents an
immediate danger to the public that requires an immediate final order, the commissioner may
issue an emergency cease and desist order reciting with particularity the facts underlying the
findings. The emergency cease and desist order is effective immediately upon service of a copy
of the order on the respondent and remains effective for 90 days. If the commissioner begins
non-emergency cease and desist proceedings, the emergency cease and desist order remains
effective, absent an order by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the "Administrative
Procedure Act," P.L.1968, c.410 (C.52:14B-1 et seq.).
e. In addition to the penalties and other enforcement provisions of this act, any person who
violates this act shall be subject to civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation which may be
collected in a summary proceeding pursuant to the "Penalty Enforcement Law of 1999,"
P.L.1999, c.274 (C.2A:58-10 et seq.). The commissioner's order may require a person found
to be in violation of this act to make restitution to persons aggrieved by violations of this act.
f. A person convicted of a violation of this act shall be ordered to pay restitution to persons
aggrieved by the violation of this act. Restitution shall be ordered in addition to a fine or
imprisonment, but not in lieu of a fine or imprisonment.
g. A person convicted of a violation of this act may be sentenced in accordance withP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
18
paragraph (1), (2), (3) or (4) of this subsection based on the greater of: the value of property,
services, or other benefit wrongfully obtained or attempted to be obtained; or the aggregate
economic loss suffered by any person as a result of the violation. A person convicted of a
fraudulent viatical settlement act shall be ordered to pay restitution to persons aggrieved by the
fraudulent viatical settlement act. Restitution shall be ordered in addition to a fine or
imprisonment but not in lieu of a fine or imprisonment.
(1) Imprisonment for not more than 20 years or payment of a fine of not more than $100,000,
or both, if the value of the viatical settlement contract is more than $35,000;
(2) Imprisonment for not more than 10 years or payment of a fine of not more than $20,000,
or both, if the value of the viatical settlement contract is more than $2,500 but not more than
$35,000;
(3) Imprisonment for not more than five years or payment of a fine of not more than $10,000,
or both, if the value of the viatical settlement contract is more than $500 but not more than
$2,500; or
(4) Imprisonment for not more than one year or payment of a fine of not more than $3,000,
or both, if the value of the viatical settlement contract is $500 or less.
h. In any prosecution under paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) of subsection g. of this section
the value of the viatical settlement contracts within any six-month period may be aggregated and
the defendant charged accordingly in applying the provisions of this section; provided that, when
two or more offenses are committed by the same person in two or more counties, the accused
may be prosecuted in any county in which one of the offenses was committed for all of the
offenses aggregated under this section. The applicable statute of limitations provision shall not
begin to run until the insurance company or law enforcement agency is aware of the fraud, but
in no event may the prosecution be commenced later than seven years after the act has occurred.
C.17B:30B-14 Violation considered unfair trade practice; penalties.
14. A violation of this act shall be considered an unfair trade practice pursuant to
N.J.S.17B:30-1 et seq. and shall be subject to the penalties contained in N.J.S.17B:30-17.
C.17B:30B-15 Regulations, authority of commissioner.
15. The commissioner shall have the authority to promulgate regulations implementing the
provisions of this act pursuant to the "Administrative Procedure Act," P.L.1968 c.410
(C.52:14B-1 et seq.) including, but not limited to, the following:
a. Establishing standards for evaluating reasonableness of payments under viatical settlement
contracts for persons terminally or chronically ill;
b. Establishing appropriate licensing requirements, fees and standards for continued
licensure for viatical settlement providers;
c. Requiring a bond or other mechanism for financial accountability for viatical settlement
providers; and
d. Governing the relationship and responsibilities of insurers, viatical settlement providers,
life insurance producers and others in the business of viatical settlements during the period of
consideration or effectuation of a viatical settlement contract.
C.17B:30B-16 Construction of act with Uniform Securities Law.
16. Nothing in this act shall be construed to preempt or otherwise limit the provisions of the
"Uniform Securities Law (1967)," P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-47 et seq.) or any regulations, orders,
policy statements, notices, bulletins, or other interpretations issued by or through the Attorney
General or his designee acting pursuant thereto. Compliance with the provisions of this act does
not constitute compliance with any applicable provisions of the "Uniform Securities Law
(1967)."
C.17B:30B-17 Continuation of negotiating viatical settlements, certain circumstances prior to
act.
17. a. Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 1 through 16 of this act, a person who has
lawfully negotiated viatical settlement contracts between a viator and one or more viaticalP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
19
settlement providers for at least one year immediately prior to the effective date of this act may
continue to negotiate viatical settlements in this State for a period of one year from the effective
date of this act, provided that person registers with the department on a form prescribed by the
department. The registration form shall be published by the department not later than 30 days
from the effective date of this act and shall require a person registering to evidence that he has
lawfully negotiated viatical settlement contracts and include an acknowledgment by that person
that he will operate in accordance with and comply with this act.
b. A viatical settlement provider that is either licensed or is lawfully transacting business in
this State immediately prior to the effective date of this act may continue to do so pending
approval or disapproval of the viatical settlement provider's application for a license pursuant
to this act.
18. Section 2 of P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-49) is amended to read as follows:
C.49:3-49 Definitions relative to Uniform Securities Law.
2. When used in this act, unless the context requires otherwise:
(a) "Bureau" means the agency designated in subsection (a) of section 19 of P.L.1967, c.93
(C.49:3-66);
(b) "Agent" means any individual other than a broker-dealer, who represents a broker-dealer
or issuer in effecting or attempting to effect purchases or sales of securities. "Agent" does not
include an individual who represents an issuer in (1) effecting transactions in a security exempted
by paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (11) of subsection (a) of section 3 of P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-50);
(2) effecting transactions exempted by subsection (b) of section 3 of P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-50);
(3) effecting transactions with existing employees, partners, or directors of the issuer, if no
commission or other remuneration is paid or given directly or indirectly for soliciting any person
in this State; or (4) a broker-dealer in effecting transactions in this State limited to those
transactions described in paragraph (2) of subsection (h) of section 15 of the "Securities
Exchange Act of 1934," 15 U.S.C. s.78o(h)(2); or (5) such other persons not otherwise within
the intent of this subsection (b), as the bureau chief may by rule or order designate. A partner,
officer, or director of a broker-dealer or issuer, or a person occupying a similar status or
performing similar functions, is an agent only if he otherwise comes within this definition. The
bureau chief may by rule or order, as to any transaction, waive the requirement of agent
registration. The bureau chief may by rule define classes of persons as "agents," if those persons
are regulated as "agents" by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any self-regulatory
organization established pursuant to the laws of the United States;
(c) "Broker-dealer" means any person engaged in the business of effecting or attempting to
effect transactions in securities for the accounts of others or for his own account.
"Broker-dealer" does not include (1) an agent, (2) an issuer, (3) a person who effects
transactions in this State exclusively in securities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
subsection (a) of section 3 of P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-50), (4) a bank, savings institution, or trust
company, or (5) a person who effects transactions in this State exclusively with or through (i)
the issuers of the securities involved in the transactions, (ii) other broker-dealers, (iii) banks,
savings institutions, trust companies, insurance companies, investment companies as defined in
the "Investment Company Act of 1940," pension or profit-sharing trusts, or other financial
institutions or institutional buyers, whether acting for themselves or as trustees or (iv) such other
persons not otherwise within the intent of this subsection (c), as the bureau chief may by rule or
order designate;
(d) "Capital" shall mean net capital, as defined and adjusted under the formula established
by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Rule 15c3-1, 17 C.F.R. s.240.15c3-1, made
pursuant to the "Securities Exchange Act of 1934," prescribing a minimum permissible ratio of
aggregate indebtedness to net capital as such formula presently exists or as it may hereafter be
amended;
(e) "Fraud," "deceit," and "defraud" are not limited to common-law fraud or deceit. "Fraud,"
"deceit" and "defraud" in addition to the usual construction placed on these terms and accepted
in courts of law and equity, shall include the following, provided, however, that any promise,P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
20
representation, misrepresentation or omission be made with knowledge and with intent to
deceive or with reckless disregard for the truth and results in a detriment to the purchaser or
client of an investment adviser:
(1) Any misrepresentation by word, conduct or in any manner of any material fact, either
present or past, and any omission to disclose any such fact;
(2) Any promise or representation as to the future which is beyond reasonable expectation
or is unwarranted by existing circumstances;
(3) The gaining of, or attempt to gain, directly or indirectly, through a trade in any security,
a commission, fee or gross profit so large and exorbitant as to be unconscionable, unreasonable
or in violation of any law, regulation, rule, order or decision of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, or the bureau chief; or to the extent that such law, regulation, rule or order directly
applies to the person involved, the gaining of, or attempt to gain, directly or indirectly, through
a trade in any security, a commission, fee or gross profit so large and exorbitant as to be in
violation of any law, regulation, rule, order or decision of any other state or Canadian securities
administrator, or any self-regulatory organization established pursuant to the laws of the United
States;
(4) Generally any course of conduct or business which is calculated or put forward with
intent to deceive the public or the purchaser of any security or investment advisory services as
to the nature of any transaction or the value of such security;
(5) Any artifice, agreement, device or scheme to obtain money, profit or property by any of
the means herein set forth or otherwise prohibited by this act;
(f) "Guaranteed" means guaranteed as to payment of principal, interest or dividends;
(g) (1) "Investment adviser" means:
(i) any person who, for direct or indirect compensation, engages in the business of advising
others, either directly or through publications or writings, as to the value of securities or as to
the advisability of investing in, purchasing, selling or holding securities, or who, for
compensation and as a part of a regular business, issues or promulgates analyses or reports
concerning securities; and
(ii) any financial planner and other person who provides investment advisory services to
others for compensation and as part of a business or who holds himself out as providing
investment advisory services to others for compensation.
(2) "Investment adviser " does not include:
(i) a bank, savings institution, or trust company;
(ii) a lawyer, accountant, engineer, or teacher whose performance of these services is solely
incidental to the practice or conduct of the profession and who does not hold himself out as
providing investment advisory or financial planning services, and who receives no special
compensation for those investment advisory or financial planning services;
(iii) a broker-dealer registered under this act;
(iv) a publisher of any bona fide newspaper, news magazine, or business or financial
publication of general, regular, and paid circulation;
(v) a person whose advice, analyses, or reports relate only to securities exempted by
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of section 3 of P.L.1967, c.93 (C.49:3-50);
(vi) a person whose only clients in this State are other investment advisers, any person that
is registered as an "investment adviser" under section 203 of the "Investment Advisers Act of
1940," 15 U.S.C. s.80b-3, or excluded from the definition of an "investment adviser" under
paragraph (11) of subsection (a) of section 202 of the "Investment Advisers Act of 1940," 15
U.S.C. s.80b-2(a)(11), broker-dealers, banks, bank holding companies, savings institutions, trust
companies, insurance companies, investment companies as defined in the "Investment Company
Act of 1940," pension or profit-sharing trusts, or other financial institutions or institutional
buyers, whether acting for themselves or as trustees;
(vii) any person that is registered as an "investment adviser" under section 203 of the
"Investment Advisers Act of 1940," 15 U.S.C. s.80b-3, or excluded from the definition of an
"investment adviser" under paragraph (11) of subsection (a) of section 202 of the "Investment
Advisers Act of 1940," 15 U.S.C. s.80b-2(a)(11);
(viii) an investment adviser representative; orP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
21
(ix) such other persons not otherwise within the intent of this subsection (g) as the bureau
chief may by rule or order designate.
Subject to applicable federal law, the bureau chief may by rule limit the exclusions set out in
this paragraph (2), except for those exclusions provided in subparagraph (i) of paragraph (2).
For purposes of this act, "investment advisory services" means those services rendered by an
"investment adviser" as defined in this subsection;
(h) "Issuer" means any person who issues or proposes to issue any security, except that (1)
with respect to certificates of deposit, voting-trust certificates, or collateral-trust certificates,
or with respect to certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment trust not
having a board of directors (or persons performing similar functions) or of the fixed, restricted
management, or unit type, the term "issuer" means the person or persons performing the acts and
assuming the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other
agreement or instrument under which the security is issued; and (2) with respect to certificates
of interest in oil, gas, or mining titles or leases, there is not considered to be any "issuer";
(i) "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an association, a joint-stock
company, a trust where the interests of the beneficiaries are evidenced by a security, an
unincorporated organization, a government, or a political subdivision of a government;
(j) (1) "Sale" or "sell" includes every contract of sale of, contract to sell, or disposition of,
a security or interest in a security or investment advisory services for value;
(2) "Offer" or "offer to sell" includes every attempt or offer to dispose of, or solicitation of
any offer to buy, a security or interest in a security or investment advisory services for value;
(3) Any security given or delivered with, or as a bonus on account of, any purchase of
securities or any other thing is considered to constitute part of the subject of the purchase and
to have been offered and sold for value;
(4) A purported gift of assessable stock is considered to involve an offer and sale;
(5) Every sale or offer of a warrant or right to purchase or subscribe to another security of
the same or another issuer, as well as every sale or offer of a security which gives the holder a
present or future right or privilege to convert into another security of the same or another issuer,
is considered to include an offer of the other security;
(6) The terms defined in this subsection (j) do not include (i) any bona fide pledge or loan;
(ii) any stock dividend, whether the corporation distributing the dividend is the issuer of the
stock or not, if nothing of value is given by stockholders for the dividend other than the
surrender of a right to a cash or property dividend when each stockholder may elect to take the
dividend in cash or property or in stock; (iii) any act incident to a class vote by stockholders,
pursuant to the certificate of incorporation or the applicable corporation statute, on a merger,
consolidation, reclassification of securities, or sale of corporate assets in consideration of the
issuance of securities of another corporation; or (iv) any act incident to a judicially approved
reorganization in which a security is issued in exchange for one or more outstanding securities,
claims, or property interests, or partly in such exchange and partly for cash;
(k) "Savings institutions" shall mean any savings and loan association or building and loan
association operating pursuant to the "Savings and Loan Act (1963)," P.L.1963, c.144
(C.17:12B-2 et seq.), and any federal savings and loan association and any association or credit
union organized under the laws of the United States or of any state whose accounts are insured
by a federal corporation or agency;
(l) "Securities Act of 1933," 15 U.S.C. s.77a et seq.; "Securities Exchange Act of 1934,"
15 U.S.C. s.78a et seq.; "Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935," 15 U.S.C. s.79 et seq.;
"Investment Advisers Act of 1940," 15 U.S.C. s.80b-1 et seq.; "Investment Company Act of
1940," 15 U.S.C. s.80a-1 et seq.; and "Commodity Exchange Act," 7 U.S.C. s.1 et seq. mean
the federal statutes of those names;
(m) "Security" means any note; stock; treasury stock; bond; debenture; evidence of
indebtedness; certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, including,
but not limited to, certificates of interest or participation in real or personal property;
collateral-trust certificate; preorganization certificate or subscription; transferable share;
investment contract; voting-trust certificate; certificate of deposit for a security; certificate of
interest in an oil, gas or mining title or lease; a viatical investment; or, in general, any interestP.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
22
or instrument commonly known as a "security," or any certificate of interest or participation in,
temporary or interim certificate for, guarantee of, or warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase,
any of the foregoing. "Security" does not include any insurance or endowment policy or annuity
contract under which an insurance company promises to pay a fixed or variable number of dollars
either in a lump sum or periodically for life or some other specified period;
(n) "State" means any state, territory, or possession of the United States, as well as the
District of Columbia and Puerto Rico;
(o) "Nonissuer" means secondary trading not involving the issuer of the securities or any
person in a control relationship with the issuer;
(p) "Accredited investor" means any person who is an "accredited investor" as defined by
subsection (15) of section 2 of the "Securities Act of 1933," 15 U.S.C. s.77b(a)(15), and 17
C.F.R. s.230.215 and s.230.501 or any successor rule promulgated pursuant to that act.
The bureau chief may rule, or order, waive or modify the conditions in this subsection (p) and
shall interpret and apply this subsection (p) so as to effectuate greater uniformity and
coordination in federal-state securities registration exemptions;
(q) "Direct participation security" means a security which provides for flow-through tax
consequences (tax shelter), regardless of the structure of the legal entity or vehicle for
distribution, including, but not limited to, a security representing an interest in gas, oil, real
estate, agricultural property, cattle, a condominium, a Subchapter S corporation, a limited
liability company and all other securities of a similar nature, regardless of the industry
represented by the security, or any combination thereof. Excluded from this definition are real
estate investment trusts, tax qualified pension and profit-sharing plans pursuant to sections 401
and 403(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. ss.401 and 403(a), and individual
retirement plans under section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. s.408, tax
sheltered annuities pursuant to the provisions of section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, 26 U.S.C. s.403(b), and any company including separate accounts registered pursuant
to the "Investment Company Act of 1940;"
(r) "Blind pool"means an offering of securities in which, as to 65% or more of the proceeds
of the offering, the prospectus discloses no specific purpose to which the proceeds of the
offering will be put, or the prospectus discloses no specific assets to be purchased, projects to
be undertaken, or business to be conducted, except for:
(1) an offering of securities to provide working capital for an operating company (as opposed
to a development stage company);
(2) an offering of securities by an investment company registered under the "Investment
Company Act of 1940," including a business development company; or
(3) an offering of securities by a small business investment company licensed by the Small
Business Administration or a business development company within the meaning of the
"Investment Advisers Act of 1940;"
(s) "Investment adviser representative" means any person, including, but not limited to, a
partner, officer, or director, or a person occupying a similar status or performing similar
functions, or other individual, except clerical or ministerial personnel, who is employed by or
associated with an investment adviser registered under this act, or who has a place of business
located in this State and is employed by or associated with a person registered or required to be
registered as an investment adviser under section 203 of the "Investment Advisers Act of 1940,"
15 U.S.C. s.80b-3; and who does any of the following:
(1) makes any recommendations or otherwise renders advice regarding securities if the
person has direct advisory client contact;
(2) manages accounts or portfolios of clients;
(3) determines recommendations or advice regarding securities;
(4) solicits, offers or negotiates for the sale of or sells investment advisory services; or
(5) directly supervises any investment adviser representative or the supervisors of those
investment adviser representatives. "Investment adviser representative" does not include a
broker-dealer or an agent;
(t) "Institutional buyer" includes, but is not limited to, a "qualified institutional buyer" as
defined in SEC Rule 144A, 17 C.F.R. s.230.144A;P.L. 2005, CHAPTER 229
23
(u) "Willful"or "willfully" means a person who acts intentionally in the sense that the person
is aware of what he is doing;
(v) "Federal covered security" means any security described as a covered security in
subsection (b) of section 18 of the "Securities Act of 1933," 15 U.S.C. s.77r(b);
(w) "Viatical investment" means the contractual right to receive any portion of the death
benefit or ownership of a life insurance policy or certificate, for consideration that is less than
the expected death benefit of the life insurance policy or certificate. Viatical investment does
not include:
(1) any transaction between a viator and a viatical settlement provider as defined by the
"Viatical Settlements Act", P.L.2005, c.229 (C.17B:30B-1 et al.);
(2) any transfer of ownership or beneficial interest in a life insurance policy from a viatical
settlement provider to another viatical settlement provider as defined in the"Viatical Settlements
Act", P.L.2005, c.229 (C.17B:30B-1 et al.) or to any legal entity formed solely for the purpose
of holding ownership or beneficial interest in a life insurance policy or policies;
(3) the bona fide assignment of a life insurance policy to a bank, savings bank, savings and
loan association, credit union, or other licensed lending institution as collateral for a loan;
(4) the exercise of accelerated benefits pursuant to the terms of a life insurance policy issued
in accordance with the provisions of Title 17B of the New Jersey Statutes; or
(5) a loan by a life insurance company pursuant to the terms of the life insurance contract.
Repealer.
19. P.L.1999, c.211 (C.17B:30A-1 et seq.) is repealed.
20. Section 15 of this act shall take effect immediately and the remainder of this act shall take
effect on the 90th day after enactment.
Approved September 22, 2005.