State of Nevada: Life Settlements Statutes 
Nevada Revised Statutes→Title 57 Insurance → Chapter 688C – Viatical Settlements  
Section 688C.010 - Definitions 
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and terms defined 
in 688C.020 to 688C.150, inclusive, have the meanings ascribed to them in those sections. 
NRS 688C.010 
Section 688C.020 - "Advertising" defined 
"Advertising" means a written, electronic or printed communication or a communication by 
recorded telephone message, radio, television, the Internet or a similar medium of 
communication, including a film strip, motion picture or videotape, published, communicated or 
otherwise placed before the public to create an interest in, or induce a person to purchase or sell a 
policy of life insurance pursuant to, a viatical settlement. 
NRS 688C.020 
Section 688C.030 - "Broker of viatical settlements" defined 
"Broker of viatical settlements" means a person who on behalf of a viator and for a fee, 
commission or other valuable consideration offers or attempts to negotiate a viatical settlement 
between the viator and one or more providers or brokers of viatical settlements. The term does 
not include an attorney at law, certified public accountant or financial planner accredited by a 
nationally recognized accrediting agency who is retained by the viator and whose compensation 
is not paid by a provider or purchaser of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.030 
Section 688C.040 - "Business of viatical settlements" defined 
"Business of viatical settlements" means the offering, solicitation, negotiation, procurement, 
effectuation, purchasing, financing, monitoring, tracking, underwriting, selling, transferring, 
pledging or otherwise hypothecating of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.040 
Section 688C.050 - "Chronically ill" defined 
"Chronically ill" means: 
1. Being unable to perform at least two activities of daily living, such as eating, moving from one 
place to another, bathing, dressing, continence, defecation or urination;2. Requiring substantial 
supervision for protection from threats to health and safety because of cognitive impairment; 
or3. Having a level of disability similar to that described in subsection 1 as determined by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services. 
NRS 688C.050 

Section 688C.060 - "Financing agent" defined1. "Financing agent" means an underwriter, agent 
for placement, enhancer of credit, lender, purchaser of securities, purchaser of a policy from a 
provider of viatical settlements or other person that may enter into a viatical settlement and has 
direct ownership in a policy that is the subject of the viatical settlement but:(a) Whose principal 
activity related to the transaction is providing money to effect the viatical settlement; 
and(b) Who has an agreement in writing with one or more licensed providers of viatical 
settlements to finance the acquisition of one or more viatical settlements.2. The term does not 
include a nonaccredited investor or a purchaser of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.060 
Section 688C.070 - "Policy" defined 
"Policy" means an individual or group policy, group certificate, contract or arrangement of life 
insurance affecting the rights of a person, whether or not delivered or issued for delivery in this 
state. 
NRS 688C.070 
Section 688C.080 - "Provider of viatical settlements" defined 
"Provider of viatical settlements" means a person other than a viator who enters into or 
effectuates a viatical settlement. The term does not include: 
1. A bank, savings and loan association, savings bank, thrift company, credit union or other 
licensed lender that takes an assignment of a policy as security for a loan;2. The issuer of a 
policy that provides accelerated benefits pursuant to the contract;3. An authorized or eligible 
insurer that provides stop-loss coverage to a provider or purchaser of viatical settlements;4. A 
natural person who enters into no more than one agreement in a calendar year for the transfer of 
policies for a value less than the expected death benefit;5. A financing agent;6. A special 
organization; or7. A purchaser of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.080 
Section 688C.090 - "Purchaser of viatical settlements" defined1. "Purchaser of viatical 
settlements" means:(a) A person who gives a sum of money as consideration for a policy or an 
interest in the death benefits of a policy;(b) A person who owns or acquires or is entitled to a 
beneficial interest in a trust that owns a viatical settlement contract as described in subsection 2 
of 687B.040; or(c) A person who is the beneficiary of a policy that has been or will be the 
subject of a viatical settlement contract, for the purpose of deriving an economic benefit.2. The 
term does not include:(a) A person licensed pursuant to this chapter;(b) An accredited investor or 
qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 or Rule 144A of 
the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended;(c) A financing agent; or(d) A special 
organization. 
NRS 688C.090 
Section 688C.095 - "Rescission period" defined 
"Rescission period" means the shorter period of 60 days after the date on which a viatical 
settlement is signed by all parties thereto or 30 days after the viator receives the proceeds from 
that viatical settlement. 

NRS 688C.095 
Section 688C.100 - "Special organization" defined 
"Special organization" means an organization formed by a licensed provider of viatical 
settlements solely to enable the provider to gain access to institutional markets for capital. 
NRS 688C.100 
Section 688C.110 - "Terminally ill" defined 
"Terminally ill" means having an illness that can reasonably be expected to result in death within 
24 months. 
NRS 688C.110 
Section 688C.130 - "Viatical settlement" defined 
"Viatical settlement" means a written agreement between a viator and a provider of viatical 
settlements or an affiliate thereof for the payment of money, or anything else of value, which is 
less than the expected death benefit of a policy, in exchange for the viator's assignment, sale, 
transfer or devise of the death benefit or ownership of any portion of the policy. The term 
includes an agreement to transfer ownership or change the beneficiary, in the future, regardless 
of the date of payment to the viator. 
NRS 688C.130 
Section 688C.133 - "Viatical settlement investment" defined 
"Viatical settlement investment" has the meaning ascribed to it in NRS 90.308. 
NRS 688C.133 
Section 688C.135 - "Viatical settlement investment agent" and "investment agent of viatical 
settlements" defined 
"Viatical settlement investment agent" or "investment agent of viatical settlements" means a 
person who is appointed by or contracts with a licensed provider of viatical settlements to solicit 
or arrange for the funding for the purchase of a viatical settlement by a purchaser of viatical 
settlements on behalf of the provider of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.135 
Section 688C.137 - "Viatical settlement purchase agreement" defined 
"Viatical settlement purchase agreement" means a contract or agreement to which the viator is 
not a party, and which is entered into by a purchaser of viatical settlements to purchase a life 
insurance policy or an interest in a life insurance policy for the purpose of deriving an economic 
benefit. 
NRS 688C.137 

Section 688C.140 - "Viaticated policy" defined 
"Viaticated policy" means a policy that has been acquired by a provider of viatical settlements 
pursuant to a viatical settlement. 
NRS 688C.140 
Section 688C.150 - "Viator" defined1. "Viator" means the owner of a policy or the holder of a 
certificate of insurance under a policy of group insurance who resides in this State and who 
enters or seeks to enter into a viatical settlement. The term is not limited to an owner who is 
terminally or chronically ill except where that limitation is expressly provided.2. The term does 
not include:(a) A producer of life insurance acting as a broker of viatical settlements pursuant to 
this chapter;(b) A qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A of the federal Securities 
Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. §§ 77a et seq., as amended;(c) A financing agent; or(d) A special 
organization. 
NRS 688C.150 
Section 688C.160 - Governing law when residents of different states are viators or purchasers of 
viatical settlements with respect to single policy 
If there is more than one viator or purchaser of viatical settlements with respect to a single policy 
and they are residents of different states, one of whom resides in this State and enters or seeks to 
enter into a viatical settlement or an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement, the legal effect 
of the viatical settlement or agreement to purchase a viatical settlement, as applicable, is 
governed by the law of the state in which the viator or the purchaser having the largest fractional 
ownership resides. If the viators or purchasers of viatical settlements own equal fractions, they 
may agree in writing to choose which state, among the states in which the viators or purchasers 
of viatical settlements reside, will be the state whose law will govern. 
NRS 688C.160 
Section 688C.170 - Regulations 
The Commissioner may adopt regulations to: 
1. Establish standards for evaluating the reasonableness of payments under viatical settlements to 
persons chronically or terminally ill, including the regulation of the rates of discount used to 
determine the amount paid in exchange for an assignment, transfer, sale or devise of a benefit 
under a policy.2. Require a bond or otherwise ensure financial accountability of providers and 
brokers of viatical settlements.3. Govern the relationship of insurers with providers and brokers 
of viatical settlements during the viatication of a policy.4. Establish standards and requirements 
for licensing and registering producers of insurance acting as brokers of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.170 
Section 688C.175 - Applicability of other provisions1. Persons engaged in the business of 
viatical settlements are subject to the provisions of this chapter and to the following provisions, 
to the extent reasonably applicable:(a)NRS 679B.230 to 679B.300, inclusive, concerning 
examinations of insurers.(b)NRS 679B.310 to 679B.370, inclusive, concerning hearings 
regarding insurers and employees of insurers.(c) Chapter 680A of NRS.(d) Chapter 683A of 

NRS.(e)686A.010 to 686A.310, inclusive, concerning trade practices and frauds.2. Nothing in 
this chapter or elsewhere in this title preempts or otherwise limits the provisions of chapter 90 of 
NRS, or of any rules, regulations or orders issued by or through the Administrator of the 
Securities Division of the Office of the Secretary of State or the Administrator's designee acting 
pursuant to the authority granted by chapter 90 of NRS.3. Compliance with the provisions of this 
chapter does not constitute compliance with any applicable provisions of chapter 90 of NRS or 
with any rule, regulation or order adopted or issued thereunder. 
NRS 688C.175 
Section 688C.180 - Examinations and investigations by Commissioner 
The Commissioner may examine or investigate a licensee under this chapter as often as the 
Commissioner considers appropriate. An examination will be conducted in the manner provided 
in NRS 679B.230 to 679B.300, inclusive. The Commissioner may also examine or investigate 
any other person or business insofar as the Commissioner considers necessary or material to the 
examination or investigation of the licensee. Instead of an examination or investigation under 
this chapter of a foreign or alien person licensed under this chapter, the Commissioner may 
accept a report on examination or investigation of the licensee by the equivalent authority of the 
licensee's state of domicile or port of entry. 
NRS 688C.180 
Section 688C.190 - License to operate as investment agent or provider or broker of viatical 
settlements: Required application; renewal; expiration; fees; information regarding certain 
persons; effect; exception1. Except as otherwise provided in NRS 688C.215, a person shall not, 
without first obtaining a license from the Commissioner, operate in or from this State as an 
investment agent or a provider or broker of viatical settlements.2. Application for a license must 
be made to the Commissioner on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, accompanied by all 
applicable fees. A license may be renewed from year to year on its anniversary by payment of all 
applicable fees. The license expires if all applicable fees are not paid by that date.3. An applicant 
shall provide information on forms required by the Commissioner, who may at any time require 
the applicant to disclose the identity of all stockholders, partners, members, officers and 
employees. The Commissioner may refuse to issue a license to an organization if the 
Commissioner is not satisfied that a stockholder, partner, member or officer who may materially 
influence the applicant's conduct satisfies the requirements of this chapter.4. A license issued to 
an organization authorizes all partners, members, officers and designated employees to act as 
investment agents or providers or brokers of viatical settlements. Those persons must be named 
in the application or a supplement to it. 
NRS 688C.190 
Section 688C.200 - Investigation of applicant; issuance of license; requirements regarding 
evidence of financial responsibility; requirements regarding service of process for nonresident; 
provision of certain new or revised information to Commissioner1. Upon the filing of an 
application and payment of all applicable fees, the Commissioner shall investigate the applicant, 
and issue a license if the Commissioner finds that the applicant:(a) If a provider of viatical 
settlements, has set forth a detailed plan of operation;(b) Is competent and trustworthy and 
intends to act in good faith in the capacity for which the license is sought;(c) Has a good 

reputation in business and, if a natural person, has had experience, training or education which 
qualifies the applicant in that capacity;(d) If an organization, provides a certificate of good 
standing from the state of its domicile; and(e) If a provider or broker of viatical 
settlements:(1) Has included a plan to prevent fraud which satisfies the requirements of NRS 
688C.490; and(2) Has demonstrated evidence of financial responsibility through either:(I) A 
surety bond which complies with NRS 679B.175 and is in an amount determined by the 
Commissioner, which must be not less than $250,000; or(II) A deposit of cash, certificates of 
deposit, securities or any combination thereof in the amount of $250,000.2. The Commissioner 
shall not issue a license to a nonresident unless a written designation of an agent for service of 
process, or an irrevocable written consent to the commencement of an action against the 
applicant by service of process upon the Commissioner, accompanies the application.3. A 
provider or broker of viatical settlements shall furnish to the Commissioner new or revised 
information concerning partners, members, officers, holders of more than 10 percent of its stock, 
and designated employees within 30 days after a change occurs.4. Notwithstanding any provision 
of this section to the contrary, the Commissioner shall accept as evidence of financial 
responsibility proof that financial instruments complying with the requirements of this section 
have been filed with a state where the applicant is licensed as a provider or broker of viatical 
settlements.5. A surety bond issued for the purposes of this section must specifically authorize 
recovery by the Commissioner on behalf of any person in this State who sustained damages as a 
result of:(a) Erroneous acts;(b) Failure to act; or(c) Conviction of:(1) Fraud; or(2) Unfair 
practices, 
by the provider or broker of viatical settlements. 
6. The Commissioner may request evidence of financial responsibility as described in 
subparagraph (2) of paragraph (e) of subsection 1 at any time the Commissioner deems 
necessary. 
Section 688C.210 - Suspension, revocation or refusal of license: Grounds; limitation on 
suspension period for certain grounds; application for hearing1. After notice, and after a hearing 
if requested, the Commissioner may suspend, revoke, refuse to issue or refuse to renew a license 
under this chapter if the Commissioner finds that:(a) There was material misrepresentation in the 
application for the license;(b) The licensee or an officer, partner, member or significant 
managerial employee has been convicted of fraudulent or dishonest practices, is subject to a final 
administrative action for disqualification, or is otherwise shown to be untrustworthy or 
incompetent;(c) A provider of viatical settlements has engaged in a pattern of unreasonable 
payments to viators;(d) The applicant or licensee has been found guilty or guilty but mentally ill 
of, or pleaded guilty, guilty but mentally ill or nolo contendere to, a felony or a misdemeanor 
involving fraud, forgery, embezzlement, obtaining money under false pretenses, larceny, 
extortion, conspiracy to defraud or any crime involving moral turpitude, whether or not a 
judgment of conviction has been entered by the court;(e) A provider of viatical settlements has 
entered into a viatical settlement in a form not approved pursuant to 688C.220;(f) A provider of 
viatical settlements has failed to honor obligations of a viatical settlement or an agreement to 
purchase a viatical settlement;(g) The licensee no longer meets a requirement for initial 
licensure;(h) A provider of viatical settlements has assigned, transferred or pledged a viaticated 
policy to a person other than another provider licensed under this chapter, a purchaser of the 
viatical settlement or a special organization;(i) The applicant or licensee has provided materially 
untrue information to an insurer that issued a policy that is the subject of a viatical 

settlement;(j) The applicant or licensee has failed to pay a tax as required pursuant to the 
provisions of chapter 363A or 363C of NRS;(k) The applicant or licensee has violated a 
provision of this chapter or other applicable provisions; or(l) The applicant or licensee has acted 
in bad faith with regard to a viator.2. A suspension imposed for grounds set forth in paragraph 
(k) or (l) of subsection 1 must not exceed a period of 12 months.3. If the Commissioner takes 
action as described in subsection 1, the applicant or licensee may apply in writing for a hearing 
before the Commissioner to determine the reasonableness of the action taken by the 
Commissioner, pursuant to the provisions of NRS 679B.310 to 679B.370, inclusive. 
NRS 688C.210 
Section 688C.212 - Financial planner who performs certain activities related to viatical 
settlements required to be licensed as insurance consultant1. A financial planner who, on behalf 
of a viator and for a fee, commission or other valuable consideration not paid by a provider or 
purchaser of viatical settlements, offers or attempts to negotiate a viatical settlement between the 
viator and one or more providers or brokers of viatical settlements must be licensed as an 
insurance consultant pursuant to NRS 683C.020.2. As used in this section, "financial planner" 
means a person who for compensation advises others upon the investment of money or upon 
provision for income to be needed in the future, or who holds himself or herself out as qualified 
to perform either of these functions, but does not include:(a) An attorney and counselor at law 
admitted by the Supreme Court of this State;(b) A certified public accountant or a public 
accountant pursuant to 628.190 to 628.310, inclusive;(c) A broker-dealer or sales representative 
licensed pursuant to NRS 90.310 or exempt under NRS 90.320;(d) An investment adviser 
licensed pursuant to 90.330 or exempt under 90.340 or 90.345; or(e) A producer of insurance 
licensed pursuant to chapter 683A of NRS or an insurance consultant licensed pursuant to 
chapter 683C of NRS, 
whose advice upon investment or provision of future income is incidental to the practice of his or 
her profession or business. 
NRS 688C.212 
Section 688C.213 - Probation of broker or investment agent of viatical settlements for acting in 
bad faith 
The Commissioner may place a broker or investment agent of viatical settlements on probation if 
the Commissioner finds that the broker or investment agent of viatical settlements has acted in 
bad faith with regard to a viator. 
NRS 688C.213 
Section 688C.214 - Action by Commissioner against producer of life insurance for violation or 
acting in bad faith regarding viator; application for hearing1. If the Commissioner finds that a 
producer of life insurance has violated a provision of this chapter or other applicable provisions 
or has acted in bad faith with regard to a viator, the Commissioner may:(a) Refuse to:(1) Issue a 
license to the producer of life insurance; or(2) Renew a license of the producer of life 
insurance;(b) Suspend the producer of life insurance for a period not to exceed 12 months; 
or(c) Place the producer of life insurance on probation.2. If the Commissioner takes action as 
described in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection 1, the producer of life insurance may apply in 

writing for a hearing before the Commissioner to determine the reasonableness of the action 
taken by the Commissioner, pursuant to the provisions of NRS 679B.310 to 679B.370, inclusive. 
NRS 688C.214 
Section 688C.215 - License to operate as investment agent or broker of viatical settlements not 
required for certain producers of insurance; registration with Division and compliance with 
certain provisions required; fee; penalty1. A natural person who has been licensed for at least 1 
year and who is in good standing as a resident or nonresident producer of insurance with a life 
insurance qualification is not required to be licensed as an investment agent or a broker of 
viatical settlements.2. A licensed producer of insurance specified in subsection 1 must register 
with the Division not more than 30 days after first operating as an investment agent or a broker 
of viatical settlements, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, and pay the fee for 
registration pursuant to 680B.010. Failure to register within the required period or late payment 
of or failure to pay the fee may result in the imposition of an administrative fine of not more than 
$500.3. A producer of insurance who acts as an investment agent or a broker of viatical 
settlements pursuant to subsection 1 shall comply with the provisions of 688C.220 to 688C.250, 
inclusive, and 688C.310. 
NRS 688C.215 
 
Section 688C.220 - Filing and approval of forms; submission of advertising material 
A person shall not use a form of viatical settlement or of disclosure in this state unless the form 
has been filed with and approved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall disapprove 
such a form if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the settlement or any of its terms is 
unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public or otherwise misleading or unfair to the 
viator. The Commissioner may require the submission of advertising material before its use. 
NRS 688C.220 
Section 688C.230 - Filing by licensee of annual statement; confidentiality of information; 
authorized disclosure of identity of insured; regulations1. Each licensee under this chapter shall 
file with the Commissioner on or before March 1 of each year an annual statement containing 
such information as the Commissioner prescribes by regulation. Pursuant to subsection 7 
of 679B.190, the Commissioner shall classify as confidential any information received pursuant 
to this subsection that is:(a) Data of individual transactions in the business of viatical 
settlements; or(b) Data that could compromise the privacy of personal, financial or health 
information of a viator or insured.2. Except as allowed or required by a statute other than this 
chapter, a provider or broker of viatical settlements, an investment agent, an insurer, a producer 
of insurance, an information bureau, a rating agency or any other person knowing the identity of 
an insured shall not disclose that identity as an insured to any other person unless the disclosure 
is:(a) Necessary to effect a viatical settlement between the viator and a provider of viatical 
settlements and the viator and the insured have given prior written consent to the 
disclosure;(b) Necessary to effect an agreement for the purchase of a viatical settlement between 
the purchaser and a provider of viatical settlements, and the viator and the insured have given 
prior written consent to the disclosure;(c) Furnished in response to an investigation or 
examination by the Commissioner or another governmental officer or agency;(d) A term of or 

condition to the transfer of a policy by one provider of viatical settlements to another provider; 
or(e) Necessary to permit a financing agent to finance the purchase of a policy by a provider of 
viatical settlements and the insured has given prior written consent to the disclosure. 
NRS 688C.230 
Section 688C.240 - Retention of records and documents by licensee1. A person required to be 
licensed under this chapter shall retain for 5 years copies of all:(a) Contracts, underwriting 
documents, forms of policy and applications, from the date of the proposal, offer or execution, 
whichever is latest;(b) Checks, drafts and other evidence or documentation relating to the 
payment, transfer or release of money, from the date of the transaction; and(c) Records and 
documents related to the requirements of this chapter.2. This section does not relieve a person of 
the obligation to produce a document described in subsection 1 to the Commissioner after the 
expiration of the relevant period if the person has retained the document.3. Records required by 
this section to be retained must be legible and complete. They may be retained in any form or by 
any process that accurately reproduces or is a durable medium for the reproduction of the record. 
NRS 688C.240 
 
Section 688C.242 - Viatical settlement investment agent: Representation of appointing or 
contracting provider of viatical settlements 
A viatical settlement investment agent is deemed to represent the provider of viatical settlements 
who appointed or contracted with the viatical settlement investment agent. 
NRS 688C.242 
Section 688C.244 - Viatical settlement investment agent: Knowledge of identity of or 
communication with viator or insured prohibited 
A viatical settlement investment agent shall not: 
1. Have knowledge of the identity of; or2. Communicate either directly or indirectly with, 
a viator or an insured whose policy of insurance is the object of a viatical settlement for which 
the viatical settlement investment agent solicits or arranges for the funding for the purchase. 
NRS 688C.244 
Section 688C.250 - Disclosures required to be furnished by provider or broker of viatical 
settlements to viator upon or before execution of application for settlement1. With each 
application for a viatical settlement, a provider or broker of viatical settlements shall furnish to 
the viator at least the following disclosures, in at least 12-point type, no later than the time the 
application for the settlement is signed by all the parties, in a separate document signed by the 
viator and the provider or broker:(a) A broker of viatical settlements represents the viator 
exclusively, and not the insurer or the provider of viatical settlements, and owes a fiduciary duty 
to the viator, including a duty to act according to the instructions of the viator and in the best 
interest of the viator.(b) The possible alternatives to viatical settlement, including any 
accelerated death benefits or policy loans offered under the viator's life insurance 
policy.(c) Some or all of the proceeds of the viatical settlement may be taxable under the federal 

income tax or a state franchise or income tax, and assistance should be sought from a 
professional tax adviser.(d) Proceeds of the viatical settlement may be subject to the claims of 
creditors.(e) Receipt of proceeds of a viatical settlement may adversely affect the viator's 
eligibility for Medicaid or other governmental benefits, and advice should be sought from the 
appropriate governmental agencies.(f) The viator has a right to rescind a viatical settlement 
within the rescission period, as provided in NRS 688C.300, and if the insured dies during the 
rescission period, the settlement is deemed rescinded and all proceeds must be repaid to the 
provider within 60 days after the death of the insured. Rescission, if exercised by the viator, is 
effective only if the viator:(1) Gives notice of the rescission to the provider or broker of viatical 
settlements; and(2) Repays to the provider of viatical settlements all proceeds and any premiums, 
loans and loan interest paid on account of the viatical settlement or on behalf of the provider of 
viatical settlements, 
within the rescission period. 
(g) Money will be sent to the viator within 3 business days after the provider has received the 
insurer's or group administrator's written acknowledgment that ownership of or interest in the 
policy has been transferred and the beneficiary has been designated.(h) Entering into a viatical 
settlement may cause other rights, including conversion and waiver of premium, that may exist 
under the policy to be forfeited by the viator, and assistance should be sought from a financial 
adviser.(i) A brochure is provided which describes the process of viatical settlement, in the form 
prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners unless the Commissioner 
prescribes a different form.(j) The name and address of the person responsible for monitoring the 
condition of the insured, the frequency of monitoring, the means of determining date of death 
and the means and time by which the date of death will be transmitted to the purchaser.2. The 
document in which the disclosures required by paragraphs (a) to (j), inclusive, of subsection 1 
are made must also contain the following: 
All medical, financial and personal information solicited or obtained by a provider or broker of 
viatical settlements about an insured, including the insured's identity and that of members of the 
insured's family, a spouse or other relationship, may be disclosed as necessary to effect the 
viatical settlement between the viator and the provider. If you are asked to provide this 
information, you will be asked to consent to the disclosure. Failure to consent may affect your 
ability to viaticate your policy. The information may be furnished to someone who buys the 
policy or provides money for the purchase. 
NRS 688C.250 
Section 688C.260 - Disclosures required to be furnished by provider of viatical settlements to 
viator upon or before execution of settlement 
A provider of viatical settlements shall furnish to the viator, no later than the date the viatical 
settlement is signed by all parties, at least the following disclosures, in at least 12-point type, 
conspicuously displayed in the viatical settlement or in a separate document signed by the viator 
and the provider or broker of viatical settlements: 
1. The affiliation, if any, between the provider of viatical settlements and the issuer of the policy 
to be viaticated.2. The name, business address and telephone number of the provider of viatical 
settlements.3. The name, business address and telephone number of the broker of viatical 

settlements.4. The existence of any affiliations or contractual agreements between the provider 
and purchaser of viatical settlements and:(a) The identity of that purchaser of viatical 
settlements; and(b) If any contractual agreements exist between the provider and purchaser of 
viatical settlements, the identity of every party to those agreements.5. The existence of any 
affiliations or contractual agreements between the broker of viatical settlements and any person 
making an offer in connection with the proposed viatical settlement and:(a) The identity of the 
person making the offer and who has an affiliation or agreement with the broker of viatical 
settlements; and(b) If any contractual agreements exist between the broker of viatical settlements 
and a person making an offer, the identity of every party to those agreements.6. If the policy to 
be viaticated was issued as a joint policy, contains family riders or covers a life other than that of 
the insured under it, any possible loss of coverage on the other lives under the policy, and that 
the viator should consult the producer of the insurance or the issuer of the policy for advice 
concerning the settlement.7. The monetary amount of the current death benefit payable to the 
provider under the policy and, if known, the availability of any other guaranteed benefit, the 
monetary amount of any benefit for accidental death or dismemberment, and the extent to which 
the viator's interest in those benefits will be transferred as a result of the viatical 
settlement.8. The name, business address and telephone number of the escrow agent, and the 
right of the viator or owner to inspect or receive copies of the relevant escrow or trust 
agreements or related documents.9. A complete and accurate description of all offers, 
counteroffers, acceptances and rejections relating to the proposed viatical settlement.10. The 
amount and method of calculation of compensation of the broker of viatical settlements, 
including, without limitation, anything of value paid or given to the broker of viatical settlements 
for the placement of the policy.11. A statement indicating the source of any compensation of the 
broker of viatical settlements from a proposed offer for the viatical settlement, the total amount 
of the offer for the viatical settlement and the compensation of the broker of viatical settlements 
expressed as a percentage of the offer for the viatical settlement. 
NRS 688C.260 
Section 688C.262 - Disclosures required to be provided by provider of viatical settlements or 
viatical settlement investment agent to purchaser of viatical settlement before execution of 
settlement; provision of certain brochure1. Before the date on which an agreement to purchase a 
viatical settlement is signed by all parties thereto, the provider of viatical settlements or a viatical 
settlement investment agent who contracted with or was appointed by the provider of viatical 
settlements shall provide the purchaser of viatical settlements with the following 
disclosures:(a) A statement that the purchaser will receive no return on the viatical settlement 
investment, including dividends and interest, until the insured has died and a claim for a death 
benefit is made pursuant to the viaticated policy.(b) A statement that the actual annual rate of 
return on a viatical settlement is dependent upon an accurate projection of the life expectancy of 
the insured and that a guaranteed annual rate of return is not determinable.(c) A statement that a 
viaticated policy is not a liquid asset.(d) A statement that the purchaser may lose all, or a 
substantial portion, of the benefits of the viaticated policy if the insurer who issued the policy 
goes out of business during the term of the viatical settlement investment.(e) A statement that the 
purchaser is responsible for the payment of premiums and other costs related to the viaticated 
policy, including, without limitation, premiums and costs if the insured returns to health, and that 
those payments may reduce the purchaser's return on the viatical settlement investment.(f) A 
statement as to whether the purchaser is entitled to a refund of all or a part of the payment of the 

purchaser pursuant to the viatical settlement investment if the viaticated policy is later 
determined to be void.(g) A statement that a group insurance policy may contain 
provisions:(1) Limiting or negating rights of conversion if the policy is terminated and replaced 
by another policy; and(2) Requiring the payment of additional premiums if the policy is 
converted. If the group insurance policy requires a payment of additional premiums if the policy 
is converted, a disclosure statement pursuant to this subparagraph must also identify the name of 
the party responsible for the payment of the additional premiums.(h) The cost of the premium to 
be paid by the purchaser.(i) The costs of any fees or other expenses to be paid by the 
purchaser.(j) The name, business address and telephone number of the designated independent 
escrow agent.(k) The relationship between the designated independent escrow agent and the 
broker of viatical settlements.(l) The risks associated with contestability of the policy, including, 
without limitation, the risk that the purchaser will have no claim or a limited claim to death 
benefits if the insurer rescinds the policy during the period of contestability.(m) A statement as 
to whether the purchaser will be the owner of the policy in addition to being the beneficiary and, 
if the purchaser is the beneficiary only and not also the owner, the additional risks associated 
with that status, including, without limitation, the risk that the beneficiary may be changed or the 
premium may not be paid.(n) A description of the experience and qualifications of the person 
who projects the life expectancy of the insured, the information on which the projection is based 
and the relationship, if any, between the person who makes the projection and the provider of 
viatical settlements.2. The provider of viatical settlements or the viatical settlement investment 
agent shall also provide to the purchaser of viatical settlements a brochure that describes the 
process of investment in viatical settlements. The form of the brochure created by the National 
Association of Insurance Commissioners must be used unless an alternate is developed by the 
Commissioner. 
NRS 688C.262 
 
Section 688C.264 - Additional disclosure required to be provided by provider of viatical 
settlements or viatical settlement investment agent to purchaser of viatical settlement upon or 
before date of assignment, transfer or sale of policy 
Not later than the date of assignment, transfer or sale of all or a portion of a viaticated policy, a 
provider of viatical settlements or a viatical settlement investment agent who contracted with or 
was appointed by the provider of viatical settlements shall provide a purchaser of a viatical 
settlement with the following disclosures: 
1. All certifications relating to the life expectancy of the viator that were obtained by the 
provider of viatical settlements in the process of determining the price that was paid to the 
viator.2. A statement as to whether premium payments or money for the payment of other costs 
related to the policy has been deposited in an escrow account.3. If payments or money has been 
deposited in an escrow account, a statement of the date that the escrow account will be depleted 
and as to whether the purchaser of viatical settlements will be responsible for payment of 
premiums thereafter and, if so, a statement of the amount of the premiums.4. A statement as to 
whether premiums or other costs related to the policy have been waived.5. If premiums or other 
costs have been waived, a statement as to whether the purchaser will be responsible for payment 
of the premiums if the insurer that issued the policy terminates the waiver after the purchase, and 
a statement of the amount of the premiums.6. The type of policy offered or sold, any additional 

benefits included with the policy and the status of the policy.7. If the policy is term insurance, a 
statement of the additional risks associated with term insurance, including, without limitation, 
the purchaser's responsibility for additional premiums if the viator renews the policy at the end of 
the term which is effective at the time of the purchase.8. The period of contestability, if any, 
remaining under the policy.9. A statement of rights held by the insurer that could negatively 
affect or extinguish the rights of the purchaser of viatical settlements and the conditions under 
which the rights can be exercised. 
NRS 688C.264 
Section 688C.266 - Form of certain disclosures 
Disclosures made pursuant to NRS 688C.262 and 688C.264 must be printed conspicuously in at 
least 12-point type in any contract or in a separate document signed by the purchaser of viatical 
settlements and: 
1. The provider of viatical settlements; or2. The viatical settlement investment agent who 
contracted with or was appointed by the provider of viatical settlements. 
NRS 688C.266 
Section 688C.268 - Disclosure required to issuer of policy by broker or provider of viatical 
settlements who is party to plan or transaction related to policy before or during certain period 
after issuance of policy 
If a broker or provider of viatical settlements is a party to a plan, a transaction or a series of 
transactions to originate, renew or continue a policy of life insurance for the purpose of engaging 
in the business of viatical settlements before or during the first 5 years after the issuance of the 
policy, the broker or provider shall fully disclose the plan, transaction or transactions to the 
issuer of the policy. 
NRS 688C.268 
Section 688C.270 - Prerequisites to entry by viator into settlement within 5 years after issuance 
of policy; submission of independent evidence or certification to insurer1. A viator may not enter 
into a viatical settlement within 5 years after the issuance of the policy to which the settlement 
relates unless one or more of the following conditions is or has been satisfied:(a) The policy was 
issued upon the owner's exercise of a right of conversion arising out of a group policy if the total 
of the time covered under the policy plus the time covered under the group policy is at least 60 
months. The time covered under the group policy must be calculated without regard to a change 
in insurance carriers if the coverage has been continuous.(b) The viator or owner submits to the 
provider of viatical settlements independent evidence that within the 5-year period:(1) The owner 
or insured has been diagnosed as terminally ill;(2) The owner or insured has been diagnosed as 
chronically ill or has an illness or condition that is life-threatening or requires a course of 
treatment for at least 2 years, long-term care or health care at home, or any combination of 
these;(3) The spouse of the owner or insured has died;(4) The owner or insured has divorced his 
or her spouse;(5) The owner or insured has retired from full-time employment;(6) The owner or 
insured has become physically or mentally disabled and a physician determines that the disability 
precludes the owner or insured from maintaining full-time employment;(7) A final judgment or 
order has been entered or issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, on the application of a 

creditor or owner of the insured, adjudging the owner or insured bankrupt or insolvent, or 
approving a petition for reorganization of the owner or insured or appointing a receiver, trustee 
or liquidator for all or a substantial part of the assets of the owner or insured; or(8) The owner of 
the policy experiences a significant decrease in income which is unexpected by the owner and 
impairs the reasonable ability of the owner to pay the premium on the policy.2. The independent 
evidence must be submitted to the insurer when the provider of viatical settlements submits a 
request to the insurer to effect transfer of the policy to the provider of viatical settlements. The 
insurer shall respond timely to the request. This section does not prohibit an insurer from 
exercising its right to contest a policy on the ground of fraud.3. If a provider of viatical 
settlements submits to an insurer a copy of the owner's or insured's certification that one of the 
events described in paragraph (b) of subsection 1 has occurred, the certification conclusively 
establishes that the viatical settlement is valid, and the insurer shall timely respond to the 
provider's request to effect a transfer of the policy. 
NRS 688C.270 
Section 688C.275 - Restrictions on business of broker and provider of viatical settlements 
With respect to a viatical settlement or a policy of insurance: 
1. A broker of viatical settlements shall not knowingly solicit an offer from, effectuate a viatical 
settlement with or make a sale to any provider, purchaser or investment agent of viatical 
settlements who:(a) Controls;(b) Is controlled by; or(c) Is under common control with, 
the broker of viatical settlements. 
2. A provider of viatical settlements shall not knowingly enter into a viatical settlement with a 
viator if, in connection with that viatical settlement, anything of value will be paid to a broker of 
viatical settlements who controls, is controlled by or is under common control with a provider, 
purchaser or investment agent of viatical settlements who is involved in the viatical settlement. 
NRS 688C.275 
Section 688C.280 - Acquisition of certain documents by provider or broker of viatical 
settlements before entry into settlement; notice to issuer of policy; requests for and responses 
related to verification of coverage1. A provider of viatical settlements who enters into a 
settlement shall first obtain:(a) If the viator is the insured, a written statement from a licensed 
attending physician that the viator is of sound mind and under no constraint or undue influence to 
enter into a settlement;(b) A witnessed document in which the viator:(1) Consents to the viatical 
settlement;(2) Represents that he or she has a full and complete understanding of the settlement 
and of the benefits of the policy;(3) Acknowledges that he or she has entered into the settlement 
freely and voluntarily; and(4) If applicable to determine a payment to a person terminally or 
chronically ill, acknowledges that he or she is terminally or chronically ill and that the illness 
was diagnosed after the policy was issued; and(c) A document in which the insured consents to 
the release of his or her medical records to a provider or broker of viatical settlements and the 
insurer that issued the policy covering the insured.2. Within 20 days after a viator executes 
documents necessary to transfer rights under a policy, or enters into an agreement in any form, 
express or implied, to viaticate the policy, the provider of viatical settlements shall give written 
notice to the issuer of the policy that the policy has or will become viaticated. The notice must be 
accompanied by:(a) A copy of the release of medical records;(b) The application for the viatical 

settlement; and(c) A request for verification of coverage.3. Any of the acts described in 
subsections 1 and 2, if performed by a broker of viatical settlements, will be deemed to have 
been performed by the provider of viatical settlements for the purposes of fulfilling the 
requirements of subsections 1 and 2.4. Within 30 days after receiving a request for verification of 
coverage from a provider or broker of viatical settlements, an insurer shall respond 
by:(a) Verifying coverage; and(b) Indicating whether, on the basis of the medical evidence and 
documents provided, the insurer intends to pursue an investigation regarding the validity of the 
insurance or possible fraud. 
NRS 688C.280 
Section 688C.285 - Insurer prohibited in certain circumstances from requiring viator, insured or 
provider or broker of viatical settlements from signing form or disclosure not approved by 
Commissioner for use in connection with viatical settlements 
An insurer shall not, as a condition of responding to a request for verification of 
coverage or of effecting the transfer of a policy pursuant to a viatical settlement, 
require that the viator, insured, provider or broker of viatical settlements sign a form 
or disclosure that has not been expressly approved by the Commissioner for use in 
connection with a viatical settlement in this State. 
NRS 688C.285 
 
Section 688C.290 - Submission by viator of certain documents to escrow agent; duties of escrow 
agent; payment of viator1. A provider of viatical settlements shall instruct the viator to send the 
executed documents required to effect the change in ownership or assignment or change of 
beneficiary of the affected policy to a designated independent escrow agent. Within 3 business 
days after the date the escrow agent receives the documents, or within 3 business days after the 
provider receives the documents if by mistake they are sent directly to the provider, the escrow 
agent shall deposit the proceeds of the settlement into an escrow or trust account maintained in a 
regulated financial institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation.2. Upon deposit of the proceeds in that account, the escrow agent shall deliver to the 
provider the original documents executed by the viator. Upon the provider's receipt from the 
insurer of an acknowledgment of the change in ownership or assignment or change of 
beneficiary of the affected policy, the provider shall instruct the escrow agent to pay the proceeds 
of the settlement to the viator.3. Payment to the viator must be made within 3 business days after 
the date the provider received the acknowledgment from the insurer. Failure to make the 
payment within that time makes the viatical settlement voidable by the viator for lack of 
consideration until payment is tendered to and accepted by the viator. Payment to the viator shall 
be deemed to have been made as of the date that the escrow agent:(a) Releases money for a wire 
transfer to the viator; or(b) Deposits a check for the amount of the proceeds with the United 
States Postal Service or with a commercially reasonable delivery service. 
NRS 688C.290 
Section 688C.300 - Rescission of viatical settlement1. A viatical settlement entered into in this 
state must reserve to the viator an unconditional right to rescind the settlement within the 
rescission period. Rescission, if exercised by the viator, is effective only if the viator:(a) Gives 

notice of the rescission to the provider or broker of viatical settlements; and(b) Repays to the 
provider of viatical settlements all proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest paid on 
account of the viatical settlement or on behalf of the provider of viatical settlements, 
within the rescission period. 
2. If the insured dies during the rescission period, the settlement is deemed rescinded and all 
proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest paid on account of the viatical settlement or 
on behalf of the provider of viatical settlements must be repaid to the provider of viatical 
settlements within 60 days after the death of the insured.3. In the event of a rescission, if the 
provider of viatical settlements has paid commissions or other compensation to a broker of 
viatical settlements in connection with the rescinded transaction, the broker of viatical 
settlements shall refund all such commissions and compensation to the provider of viatical 
settlements within 5 business days following receipt of written demand from the provider of 
viatical settlements. The demand must be accompanied by:(a) The viator's notice of rescission, if 
the rescission was exercised by the viator; or(b) Notice of the death of the insured, if the 
rescission was due to the death of the insured within the rescission period.4. A purchaser of 
viatical settlements has the right to rescind an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement within 
3 business days after the purchaser of viatical settlements receives the disclosures set forth 
in NRS 688C.262 and 688C.264. 
NRS 688C.300 
 
Section 688C.310 - Limitations on contact with insured to determine address and telephone or 
status of health after settlement; applicability1. Contact with an insured to determine the 
residential or business street address and telephone number of the insured or the status of the 
health of the insured after a viatical settlement may be made only by a provider or broker of 
viatical settlements who is licensed in this state, or its authorized representative, and no oftener 
than once every 3 months if the insured has a life expectancy of 1 year or more, or once every 
month if the insured has a life expectancy of less than 1 year. The provider or broker shall 
explain the procedure for those contacts at the time the settlement is entered into.2. The 
limitations of subsection 1 do not apply to contacts for purposes other than determining status of 
health.3. A provider or broker is responsible for the acts of the authorized representative of the 
provider or broker. 
NRS 688C.310 
Section 688C.320 - Confidentiality of medical information solicited or obtained by licensee 
All medical information solicited or obtained by a licensee under this chapter is subject to other 
laws of this State relating to the confidentiality of the information. 
NRS 688C.320 
Section 688C.330 - Notice to insured of transfer of ownership or change of beneficiary of 
viaticated policy by provider of viatical settlements; response by insurer to request for such 
change; prohibited acts by insurer1. If a provider of viatical settlements transfers ownership or 
changes the beneficiary of a viaticated policy, the provider shall inform the insured of the 
transfer or change within 20 days after it occurs.2. If an insurer receives a request for change of 

ownership or beneficiary of a viaticated policy from a provider of viatical settlements, the insurer 
shall respond within 30 days after receipt thereof with written confirmation that the change has 
been effected or specifying the reasons why the requested change could not be effected.3. An 
insurer shall not unreasonably delay in effecting a requested change of ownership or beneficiary 
requested for a viaticated policy by a provider of viatical settlements.4. An insurer shall not seek 
to interfere with a viatical settlement lawfully entered into in this State. 
NRS 688C.330 
Section 688C.350 - Applicability and interpretation of provisions 
NRS 688C.350 to 688C.430, inclusive, apply to advertising of viatical settlements, agreements to 
purchase viatical settlements or related products or services intended for dissemination in this 
state, including advertising on the Internet which is viewed by persons in this state. To the extent 
that federal regulation establishes requirements for disclosure, those sections must be so 
interpreted as to eliminate or minimize conflict with the federal requirements. 
NRS 688C.350 
Section 688C.360 - Establishment and maintenance by licensee of system of control; 
responsibility for advertisements 
Each licensee under this chapter shall establish and continuously maintain a system of control 
over the content, form and method of dissemination of all advertisements of its contracts and 
services. Each advertisement is the responsibility of the licensee as well as the person who 
creates or presents it. A system of control must include notification to persons authorized by the 
licensee who disseminate advertisements, at least annually, of the requirements and procedures 
for approval before use of any advertisements not furnished by the licensee. 
NRS 688C.360 
Section 688C.370 - Advertisements: Avoidance of deception; filing of materials with 
Commissioner; regulations1. An advertisement must be truthful and not misleading in fact or by 
implication. The form and content of an advertisement for viatical settlements, agreements to 
purchase viatical settlements or related products or services must be sufficiently complete and 
clear to avoid deception. An advertisement may not have a capacity or tendency to mislead or 
deceive, as determined by the Commissioner from the overall impression it may reasonably be 
expected to create upon a person of average education or intelligence in the segment of the 
public to which it is directed.2. A provider of viatical settlements shall not enter into a viatical 
settlement unless the promotional, advertising and marketing materials, in at least 12-point type, 
have been filed with the Commissioner pursuant to regulations adopted by the Commissioner. 
The Commissioner shall adopt such regulations as the Commissioner deems necessary to carry 
out the provisions of this subsection. 
NRS 688C.370 
Section 688C.380 - Text of information required to be disclosed; use of misleading omissions, 
language or illustrations; use of name or title of insurer or policy; prohibited statements, 
implications and words1. The information required to be disclosed under NRS 
688C.350 to 688C.430, inclusive, may not be minimized, obscured, presented ambiguously or so 

intermingled with other text of an advertisement as to be confusing or misleading.2. An 
advertisement may not omit material information or use language or illustrations if the omission 
or use has a capacity or tendency to, or does, mislead viators, purchasers of viatical settlements 
or prospective purchasers of viatical settlements as to the nature or extent of any benefit, loss 
covered, premium payable or effect on federal or state taxes. Making a viatical settlement or an 
agreement to purchase a viatical settlement available for inspection before it is consummated, or 
offering to refund payment if the viator is not satisfied within the period prescribed in subsection 
4 of NRS 688C.300, does not remedy misleading statements.3. An advertisement may not use 
the name or title of an insurer or policy unless the advertisement has been approved by the 
insurer.4. An advertisement may not represent that premiums on a viaticated policy need not be 
paid in order to maintain that policy, unless that is the fact.5. An advertisement may not state or 
imply that interest charged on an accelerated death benefit or loan on a policy is unfair or in any 
way improper.6. The words "free," "no additional cost" or words of similar import may not be 
used:(a) With respect to insurance, unless the terms of the policy provide that the policy is 
provided without cost to the policyholder.(b) With respect to any benefit or service other than 
insurance unless true.7. Certain advertisements relating to viatical settlements are deemed to be 
false and misleading on their face and are prohibited. Those advertisements include, without 
limitation, the following words and phrases:(a) "Guaranteed," "fully secured," "100 percent 
secured," "fully insured," "secure," "safe," "backed by rated insurance companies," "backed by 
federal law," "backed by state law" or "state guaranty funds";(b) "No risk," "minimal risk," "low 
risk," "no speculation" or "no fluctuation";(c) "Qualified or approved for individual retirement 
accounts (IRAs), Roth IRAs, 401(k) plans, simplified employee pensions (SEPs), 403(b) plans, 
Keogh plans, TSA, other retirement account rollovers" or "tax deferred";(d) Utilization of the 
word "guaranteed" to describe a fixed return, annual return, principal, earnings, profits or 
investment;(e) "No sales charges or fees";(f) "High yield," "superior return," "excellent return," 
"high return" or "quick profit"; and(g) Favorable representations or testimonials about the 
benefits of viatical settlement contracts and agreements to purchase viatical settlements as an 
investment, out of context and purported to have been taken from newspapers, trade papers, 
journals, radio and television programs and all other forms of print and electronic media, 
or similar representations. 
NRS 688C.380 
Section 688C.390 - Use of testimonial, endorsement, appraisal, analysis or statistical 
information1. A testimonial, endorsement, appraisal or analysis used in an advertisement must be 
genuine, represent the present opinion of the author, apply to the viatical settlement or agreement 
to purchase a viatical settlement advertised, if any, and be reproduced with sufficient 
completeness to avoid misleading viators or purchasers of viatical settlements. In using a 
testimonial, endorsement, appraisal or analysis, a licensee under this chapter makes the 
statements contained therein the licensee's own, and the statements must satisfy the requirements 
of NRS 688C.350 to 688C.430, inclusive.2. If the person making a testimonial, endorsement, 
appraisal or analysis has a financial interest in the provider of viatical settlements or a related 
organization, or receives a benefit other than required wages, that fact must be prominently 
disclosed in the advertisement.3. An advertisement may not state or imply that a benefit or 
service related to a viatical settlement or an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement has been 
approved or endorsed by a group, society or other organization unless that is the fact and any 

relationship between the organization and the provider of viatical settlements is disclosed. If the 
organization is owned, controlled or managed by the provider, or receives any payment or other 
consideration from the provider for making the endorsement or testimonial, that fact must be 
disclosed in the advertisement.4. An advertisement may not contain statistical information unless 
it accurately reflects recent and relevant facts. The source of all statistics used in an 
advertisement must be identified.5. If an endorsement refers to benefits received under a viatical 
settlement or an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement, all information pertinent to that 
endorsement must be retained for a period of 5 years after the use of the endorsement. 
NRS 688C.390 
Section 688C.400 - Prohibited disparagement 
An advertisement may not disparage insurers, providers of insurance, other providers or brokers 
of viatical settlements, policies, services or methods of marketing. 
NRS 688C.400 
Section 688C.410 - Identification of provider, viatical settlement and agreement to purchase 
viatical settlement; statement of name of licensee1. The name of the provider of viatical 
settlements must be clearly identified in an advertisement about the provider, the provider's 
viatical settlements or the provider's agreements to purchase viatical settlements. If a viatical 
settlement or an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement is advertised, it must be identified by 
number or other appropriate description. If an application is part of an advertisement, the name 
of the provider must be shown on the application.2. An advertisement may not use a trade name, 
designation of a group, name of a parent or particular division of a provider of viatical 
settlements, service mark, slogan or other device or reference without disclosing the identity of 
the provider of viatical settlements licensed under this chapter if the advertisement would have 
the capacity or tendency to mislead as to the true identity of the provider or create the impression 
that an organization other than the licensee would have a responsibility for the financial 
obligation under a viatical settlement. The name of the licensee must be stated in all 
advertisements. 
NRS 688C.410 
Section 688C.420 - Use of words, symbols or physical materials similar to those of governmental 
program or agency; creation of impression of governmental recommendation or endorsement; 
statements regarding licensing1. An advertisement may not use a combination of words, symbols 
or physical materials that by their content, phraseology, shape, color or other characteristic are so 
similar to a combination of words, symbols or physical materials used by a governmental 
program or agency, or otherwise appear to be of such a nature, that they tend to mislead viators 
or purchasers of viatical settlements into believing that the solicitation is connected with a 
governmental program or agency. An advertisement may not create the impression that a 
provider of viatical settlements, the provider's financial condition or business practices, the 
payment of the provider's claims or the merit, desirability or advisability of the provider's viatical 
settlements or agreements to purchase viatical settlements is recommended or endorsed by a 
governmental authority.2. An advertisement may state that a provider of viatical settlements is 
licensed in the state in which the advertisement appears, if it does not imply that competing 
providers are not so licensed. The advertisement may suggest consulting the licensee's website or 

communicating with the Commissioner to ascertain whether the state requires licensing and, if 
so, whether a particular provider or broker of viatical settlements is licensed. 
NRS 688C.420 
 
Section 688C.430 - Disclosures required when emphasizing speed of viatication or monetary 
amounts available1. If an advertiser emphasizes the speed with which viatication will occur, the 
advertisement must disclose the average time from completed application to date of offer and 
from acceptance of offer to receipt of funds by the viator.2. If an advertiser emphasizes the 
monetary amounts available to viators, the advertisement must disclose the average purchase 
price as a fraction of face value obtained by viators who contracted with the advertiser during the 
preceding 6 months. 
NRS 688C.430 
 
Section 688C.440 - Interference with enforcement of chapter or investigation of possible 
violation unlawful; permitting person convicted of certain felonies to participate in business of 
viatical settlements unlawful 
It is unlawful knowingly or intentionally: 
1. For any person to interfere with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or an 
investigation of a possible violation of those provisions.2. For a person engaged in the business 
of viatical settlements to permit any person convicted of a felony involving dishonesty or breach 
of trust to participate in that business. 
NRS 688C.440 
Section 688C.450 - Felonious acts 
It is a category D felony, and the offender shall be punished as provided in NRS 
193.130, for any person, knowingly or with intent to defraud, to do any of the 
following acts in order to deprive another of property or for the person's own 
pecuniary gain: 
1. Present, cause to be presented or prepare with knowledge or belief that it will be presented, 
false information to or by an investment agent or a provider or broker of viatical settlements, a 
financing agent, an insurer, a provider of insurance or any other person, or to conceal 
information, as part of, in support of or concerning a fact material to:(a) An application for the 
issuance of a policy or viatical settlement;(b) The underwriting of a policy or viatical 
settlement;(c) A claim for payment or other benefit under a policy, viatical settlement or 
agreement to purchase a viatical settlement;(d) A premium paid on a policy or as a result of an 
agreement to purchase a viatical settlement;(e) A payment or change of beneficiary or ownership 
pursuant to a policy or viatical settlement;(f) The reinstatement or conversion of a policy;(g) The 
solicitation, offer or effectuation of a policy, viatical settlement or agreement to purchase a 
viatical settlement; or(h) The issuance of written evidence of a policy, viatical settlement or 
agreement to purchase a viatical settlement.2. In furtherance of a fraud or to prevent detection of 
a fraud:(a) Remove, conceal, alter, destroy or sequester from the Commissioner assets or records 
of a licensee under this chapter or other person engaged in the business of viatical 

settlements;(b) Misrepresent or conceal the financial condition of a licensee, a financing agent, 
an insurer or other person;(c) Transact the business of viatical settlements in violation of this 
chapter; or(d) File with the Commissioner or analogous officer of another jurisdiction a 
document containing false information or otherwise conceal information about a material fact 
from the Commissioner or other officer.3. Present, cause to be presented or prepare with 
knowledge or belief that it will be presented to or by a provider or broker of viatical settlements, 
an investment agent, a financing agent, an insurer, a provider of insurance or any other person, in 
connection with a viatical settlement or transaction of insurance, a policy fraudulently by the 
insured or owner or an agent of either.4. Embezzle, steal, misappropriate or convert money, 
premiums, credits or other property in an amount or having a value of less than $650 of a 
provider of viatical settlements, a viator, an insurer, an insured, an owner of a policy or other 
person engaged in the business of viatical settlements or insurance.5. Attempt to commit, assist, 
aid, abet or conspire to commit an act or omission described in subsections 1 to 4, 
inclusive.6. Under no circumstances is a violation of this section considered or intended to be a 
lesser included offense of a violation of the provisions of 90.570. 
NRS 688C.450 
 
Section 688C.460 - Provision to Commissioner of information regarding felonious acts1. A 
person engaged in the business of viatical settlements who knows or reasonably believes that a 
violation of NRS 688C.450 is being, has been or will be committed shall promptly report the 
facts and circumstances pertaining to the violation to the Commissioner.2. Any other person who 
knows or reasonably believes that a violation of NRS 688C.450 is being, has been or will be 
committed may furnish to the Commissioner the information required by the Commissioner. 
NRS 688C.460 
 
Section 688C.470 - Immunity of persons providing information regarding felonious acts; award 
of attorney's fees and costs1. Except as otherwise provided in subsection 2, a person furnishing 
information of the kind described in NRS 688C.460 is immune from liability and civil action if 
the information is furnished to or received from:(a) The Commissioner or the employees, agents 
or representatives of the Commissioner;(b) Another federal, state or local law enforcement or 
regulatory officer or his or her employees, agents or representatives;(c) Another person involved 
in the prevention or detection of violations of NRS 688C.450 or similar offenses or the 
employees, agents or representatives of the person;(d) The National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners or other regulatory body overseeing life insurance or viatical settlements, or its 
employees, agents or representatives; or(e) The insurer that issued the policy concerned in the 
information.2. The immunity provided in subsection 1 does not extend to a statement made with 
actual malice. In an action brought against a person for filing a report or furnishing other 
information concerning a violation of NRS 688C.450, the plaintiff must plead specifically that 
the defendant acted with actual malice.3. This section does not supplant or modify any other 
privilege or immunity at common law or under another statute enjoyed by a person described in 
subsection 1.4. Except as otherwise provided in subsection 5, a person furnishing information as 
described in subsection 1 is entitled to an award of attorney's fees and costs if:(a) The person is a 
defendant in a civil case arising out of activities performed in carrying out the provisions of this 
section;(b) The cause of action in the case is for libel, slander or any other relevant tort;(c) The 

person is the prevailing party in the case; and(d) The person bringing the action is not 
substantially justified in doing so.5. A person furnishing information relating to the person's own 
fraudulent acts as they relate to a viatical settlement is not entitled to an award pursuant to 
subsection 4. 
NRS 688C.470 
Section 688C.480 - Confidentiality and disclosure of certain documents and information 
regarding felonious acts1. Except as otherwise provided in NRS 239.0115, a document or 
information furnished pursuant to NRS 688C.470 or obtained by the Commissioner in an 
investigation of an actual or suspected violation of NRS 688C.450 is confidential and privileged, 
is not a public record and is not subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil action or criminal 
prosecution.2. Subsection 1 does not prohibit the Commissioner from disclosing documents or 
evidence so furnished or obtained:(a) In an administrative or judicial proceeding to enforce a 
statute administered by the Commissioner;(b) To another federal, state or local law enforcement 
or regulatory officer, another person involved in the prevention or detection of violations of NRS 
688C.450, or similar offenses, or the National Association of Insurance Commissioners; or(c) To 
a person engaged in the business of viatical settlements who is aggrieved by the 
violation.3. Disclosure of a document or evidence under subsection 2 does not abrogate or 
modify the privilege covering it under subsection 1. 
NRS 688C.480 
Section 688C.490 - Establishment, maintenance and modification by licensees of certain 
protective measures against fraud; confidentiality of plan submitted to Commissioner1. Each 
licensee under this chapter shall establish and maintain protective measures against fraud which 
are reasonably calculated to prevent, detect and assist in the prosecution of violations of NRS 
688C.450. The Commissioner may order, or a licensee may request and the Commissioner may 
approve, modifications of the measures otherwise required under this section, more or less 
restrictive than those measures, as necessary to protect against fraud. Required measures are 
employment of or contracting with investigators and submission of a plan to the Commissioner 
which includes:(a) A description of the procedures for detecting and investigating possible 
violations of NRS 688C.450 and for resolving inconsistencies between medical records and 
applications for insurance;(b) A description of the procedures for reporting possible violations to 
the Commissioner;(c) A description of the plan for educating and training underwriters and other 
personnel against fraud; and(d) A description or chart of the organizational arrangement of the 
personnel responsible for detecting and investigating possible violations of NRS 688C.450 and 
for resolving inconsistencies between medical records and applications for insurance.2. Except 
as otherwise provided in NRS 239.0115, a plan submitted to the Commissioner pursuant to 
subsection 1 is privileged and confidential, not a public record and not subject to discovery or 
subpoena in a civil action or criminal prosecution. 
NRS 688C.490 
Section 688C.500 - Statement related to false information required on application or contract for 
viatical settlement; effect 
An application or contract for a viatical settlement, however transmitted, must contain a 
statement substantially as follows: "A person who knowingly presents false information in an 
application for a viatical settlement is guilty of insurance fraud and subject to fine and 

imprisonment." The lack of such a statement is not a defense in a prosecution for violation 
of NRS 688C.450. 
NRS 688C.500 
Section 688C.510 - Injunctive and other relief; administrative fine; restitution; civil action; 
rescission1. In addition to the penalties and other means of enforcement provided under this 
chapter:(a) If a person violates a provision of this chapter or of a regulation adopted under this 
chapter, the Commissioner may seek an injunction and apply for temporary and permanent 
orders the Commissioner determines to be necessary to restrain the violator.(b) A person who 
violates a provision of this chapter is subject to an administrative fine of not more than $1,000 
for each violation.(c) In addition to a criminal penalty imposed, the court shall order restitution 
to the person aggrieved by the violation.2. A person aggrieved by a violation of this chapter may 
bring a civil action against the violator to recover the damages suffered.3. A violation of this 
chapter attendant to the signing of an agreement to purchase a viatical settlement renders the 
agreement voidable and subject to rescission by the purchaser of viatical settlements, upon tender 
of the viaticated policy by the purchaser of viatical settlements to the provider of viatical 
settlements. Suit for rescission may be brought:(a) In a court of competent jurisdiction;(b) In the 
jurisdiction where the alleged violator resides;(c) In the jurisdiction where the alleged violator 
has a principal place of business; or(d) In the jurisdiction where the alleged violation occurred. 
NRS 688C.510 
 
 
