State of Oklahoma: Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 
Oklahoma Statutes Title 36, Sections 4041–4058 
Section 4055.1 - Short title 
Sections 1 through 17 of this act shall be known and may be cited as the "Viatical Settlements 
Act of 2008". 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.1 
Section 4055.2 - Definitions 
As used in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008: 
1. "Advertising" means any written, electronic or printed communication or any communication 
by means of recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio, television, the Internet or 
similar communications media, including film strips, motion pictures and videos, published, 
disseminated, circulated or placed directly before the public, in this state, for the purpose of 
creating an interest in or inducing a person to sell, assign, devise, bequest or transfer the death 
benefit or ownership of a life insurance policy pursuant to a viatical settlement 
contract;2. "Business of viatical settlements" means an activity involved in, but not limited to, 
the offering, soliciting, negotiating, procuring, effectuating, purchasing, investing, financing, 
monitoring, tracking, underwriting, selling, transferring, assigning, pledging, hypothecating or in 
any other manner acquiring an interest in a life insurance policy by means of a viatical settlement 
contract;3. "Chronically ill" means:a. being unable to perform at least two activities of daily 
living, including, but not limited to, eating, toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing or 
continence,b. requiring substantial supervision to protect the individual from threats to health 
and safety due to severe cognitive impairment, orc. having a level of disability similar to that 
described in subparagraph a of this paragraph as determined by the Secretary of Human 
Services;4. "Commissioner" means the Insurance Commissioner of the State of 
Oklahoma;5. "Financing entity" means an underwriter, placement agent, lender, purchaser of 
securities, purchaser of a policy or certificate from a viatical settlement provider, credit enhancer, 
or any entity that has a direct ownership in a policy or certificate that is the subject of a viatical 
settlement contract, but:a. whose principal activity related to the transaction is providing funds to 
effect the viatical settlement or purchase of one or more viaticated policies, andb. who has an 
agreement in writing with one or more licensed viatical settlement providers to finance the 
acquisition of viatical settlement contracts. 
Financing entity does not include a nonaccredited investor or a viatical settlement purchaser; 
6. "Financing transaction" means a transaction in which a licensed provider obtains financing 
from a financing entity, including, without limitation, any secured or unsecured financing, any 
securitization transaction, or any securities offering which either is registered or exempt from 
registration under federal and state securities law;7. "Fraudulent viatical settlement act" 
includes:a. acts or omissions committed by any person who, knowingly and with intent to 
defraud, for the purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, commits, or 
permits its employees or its agents to engage in acts including:(1) presenting, causing to be 
presented or preparing with knowledge or belief that it will be presented to or by a viatical 
settlement provider, viatical settlement broker, viatical settlement purchaser, financing entity, 

insurer, insurance producer or any other person, false material information, or concealing 
material information, as part of, in support of or concerning a fact material to one or more of the 
following:(a) an application for the issuance of a viatical settlement contract or insurance 
policy,(b) the underwriting of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy,(c) a claim for 
payment or benefit pursuant to a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy,(d) premiums 
paid on an insurance policy,(e) payments and changes in ownership or beneficiary made in 
accordance with the terms of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy,(f) the 
reinstatement or conversion of an insurance policy,(g) in the solicitation, offer, effectuation or 
sale of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy,(h) the issuance of written evidence of 
viatical settlement contract or insurance, or(i) a financing transaction,(2) intentionally failing to 
disclose to the insurer when requested by the insurer that the prospective insured has knowingly 
undergone a life expectancy evaluation by any person or entity other than the insured or its 
authorized representatives in connection with the issuance of the policy,(3) in the solicitation, 
application or issuance of a life insurance policy, employing any device, scheme or artifice in 
violation of Section 3604 of Title 36 of the Oklahoma Statutes, and(4) employing any plan, 
financial structure, device, scheme, or artifice to defraud related to viaticated policies,b. in the 
furtherance of a fraud or to prevent the detection of a fraud any person commits or permits its 
employees or its agents to:(1) remove, conceal, alter, destroy or sequester from the 
Commissioner the assets or records of a licensee or other person engaged in the business of 
viatical settlements,(2) misrepresent or conceal the financial condition of a licensee, financing 
entity, insurer or other person,(3) transact the business of viatical settlements in violation of laws 
requiring a license, certificate of authority or other legal authority for the transaction of the 
business of viatical settlements, or(4) file with the Commissioner or the equivalent chief 
insurance regulatory official of another jurisdiction a document containing false information or 
otherwise conceals information about a material fact from the Commissioner,c. embezzlement, 
theft, misappropriation or conversion of monies, funds, premiums, credits or other property of a 
viatical settlement provider, insurer, insured, viator, insurance policyowner or any other person 
engaged in the business of viatical settlements or insurance,d. recklessly entering into, 
negotiating, brokering, otherwise dealing in a viatical settlement contract, the subject of which is 
a life insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false information concerning any fact 
material to the policy or by concealing, for the purpose of misleading another, information 
concerning any fact material to the policy, where the person or the persons intended to defraud 
the policy's issuer, the viatical settlement provider or the viator. Recklessly means engaging in 
the conduct in conscious and clearly unjustifiable disregard of a substantial likelihood of the 
existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross deviation from 
acceptable standards of conduct,e. stranger-originated life insurance,f. facilitating the change of 
state of ownership of a policy or certificate or the state of residency of a viator to a state or 
jurisdiction that does not have a law similar to this act for the express purposes of evading or 
avoiding the provisions of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, org. attempting to commit, 
assisting, aiding or abetting in the commission of, or conspiracy to commit the acts or omissions 
specified in this paragraph;8. "Life insurance producer" means any person licensed in this state 
as a resident or nonresident insurance producer who has received qualification or authority for 
life insurance coverage or a life line of coverage pursuant to the Oklahoma Producer Licensing 
Act;9. "Person" means a natural person or a legal entity, including, without limitation, an 
individual, partnership, limited liability company, association, trust, or corporation;10. "Policy" 
means an individual or group policy, group certificate, contract or arrangement of life insurance 

owned by a resident of this state, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this 
state;11. "Related provider trust" means a titling trust or other trust established by a licensed 
viatical settlement provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose of holding the ownership or 
beneficial interest in purchased policies in connection with a financing transaction. The trust 
shall have a written agreement with the licensed viatical settlement provider under which the 
licensed viatical settlement provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and 
regulatory requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files related to 
viatical settlement transactions available to the Commissioner as if those records and files were 
maintained directly by the licensed viatical settlement provider;12. "Special purpose entity" 
means a corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company or other similar entity formed 
solely to provide either directly or indirectly access to institutional capital markets:a. for a 
financing entity or licensed viatical settlement provider, orb.(1) in connection with a transaction 
in which the securities in the special purposes entity are acquired by the viator or by "qualified 
institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Federal Securities Act of 
1933, as amended, or(2) the securities pay a fixed rate of return commensurate with established 
asset-backed institutional capital markets;13. "Stranger-originated life insurance" means a 
practice or plan to initiate a life insurance policy for the benefit of a third-party investor who, at 
the time of policy origination, has no insurable interest in the insured. Stranger-originated life 
insurance practices include, but are not limited to, cases in which life insurance is purchased with 
resources or guarantees from or through a person or entity who, at the time of policy inception, 
could not lawfully initiate the policy, and where, at the time of policy inception, there is an 
arrangement or agreement, whether verbal or written, to directly or indirectly transfer the 
ownership of the policy or the policy benefits to a third party. Trusts that are created to give the 
appearance of insurable interest and are used to initiate policies for investors violate 
Section 3604 of Title 36 of the Oklahoma Statutes and the prohibition against wagering on 
human life. Stranger-originated life insurance arrangements do not include the practices provided 
in subparagraph b of paragraph 15 of this section;14. "Terminally ill" means having an illness or 
sickness that can reasonably be expected to result in death in twenty-four (24) months or 
less;15. "Viatical settlement broker" means a person, including a life insurance producer as 
provided for in Section 3 of Enrolled Senate Bill No. 1980 of the 2nd Session of the 51st 
Oklahoma Legislature, who working exclusively on behalf of a viator and for a fee, commission 
or other valuable consideration, offers or attempts to negotiate viatical settlement contracts 
between a viator and one or more viatical settlement providers or one or more viatical settlement 
brokers. Notwithstanding the manner in which the viatical settlement broker is compensated, a 
viatical settlement broker is deemed to represent only the viator, and not the insurer or the 
viatical settlement provider, and owes a fiduciary duty to the viator to act according to the 
viator's instructions and in the best interest of the viator. The term does not include an attorney, 
certified public accountant or a financial planner accredited by a nationally recognized 
accreditation agency, who is retained to represent the viator and whose compensation is not paid 
directly or indirectly by the viatical settlement provider or purchaser;16. "Viatical settlement 
contract" means a written agreement between a viator and a viatical settlement provider or any 
affiliate of the viatical settlement provider establishing the terms under which compensation or 
anything of value is or will be paid, which compensation or value is less than the expected death 
benefits of the policy, in return for the viator's present or future assignment, transfer, sale, devise 
or bequest of the death benefit or ownership of any portion of the insurance policy or certificate 
of insurance. Viatical settlement contract also means the transfer for compensation or value of 

ownership or beneficial interest in a trust or other entity that owns such policy if the trust or other 
entity was formed or availed of for the principal purpose of acquiring one or more life insurance 
contracts, which life insurance contracts insure the life of a person residing in this 
state.a. Viatical settlement contract includes a premium finance loan made for a life insurance 
policy by a lender to viator on, before or less than two (2) years after the date of issuance of the 
policy where:(1) the viator or the insured receives on the date of the premium finance loan a 
guarantee of a future viatical settlement value of the policy, or(2) the viator or the insured agrees 
on the date of the premium finance loan to sell the policy or any portion of its death benefit on 
any date following the issuance of the policy.b. Viatical settlement contract does not 
include:(1) a policy loan or accelerated death benefit made by the insurer pursuant to the policy's 
terms,(2) loan proceeds that are used solely to pay:(a) premiums for the policy, and(b) the costs 
of the loan, including, without limitation, interest, arrangement fees, utilization fees and similar 
fees, closing costs, legal fees and expenses, trustee fees and expenses, and third-party collateral 
provider fees and expenses, including fees payable to letter of credit issuers,(3) a loan made by a 
bank or other licensed financial institution in which the lender takes an interest in a life insurance 
policy solely to secure repayment of a loan or, if there is a default on the loan and the policy is 
transferred, the transfer of such a policy by the lender, provided that neither the default on the 
loan nor the transfer of the policy in connection with the default is pursuant to an agreement or 
understanding with any other person for the purpose of evading regulation under this act,(4) a 
loan made by a lender that does not violate Sections 4-101 through 4-304 of Title 14A of the 
Oklahoma Statutes, provided that the premium finance loan is not described in this 
subparagraph,(5) an agreement where all the parties:(a) are closely related to the insured by 
blood or law, or(b) have a lawful substantial economic interest in the continued life, health and 
bodily safety of the person insured, or are trusts established primarily for the benefit of such 
parties,(6) any designation, consent or agreement by an insured who is an employee of an 
employer in connection with the purchase by the employer, or trust established by the employer, 
of life insurance on the life of the employee,(7) a bona fide business succession planning 
arrangement:(a) between one or more shareholders in a corporation or between a corporation and 
one or more of its shareholders or one or more trusts established by its shareholders,(b) between 
one or more partners in a partnership or between a partnership and one or more of its partners or 
one or more trusts established by its partners, or(c) between one or more members in a limited 
liability company or between a limited liability company and one or more of its members or one 
or more trusts established by its members,(8) an agreement entered into by a service recipient, or 
a trust established by the service recipient, and a service provider, or a trust established by the 
service provider, who performs significant services for the service recipient's trade or business, 
or(9) any other contract, transaction or arrangement exempted from the definition of viatical 
settlement contract by the Commissioner based on a determination that the contract, transaction 
or arrangement is not of the type intended to be regulated by the Viatical Settlements Act of 
2008;17. "Viatical settlement provider" means a person, other than a viator, that enters into or 
effectuates a viatical settlement contract with a viator resident in this state. Viatical settlement 
provider does not include:a. a bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union or 
other licensed lending institution that takes an assignment of a life insurance policy solely as 
collateral for a loan,b. a premium finance company making premium finance loans and 
exempted by the Commissioner from the licensing requirement under the premium finance laws 
that takes an assignment of a life insurance policy solely as collateral for a loan,c. the issuer of 
the life insurance policy,d. an authorized or eligible insurer that provides stop loss coverage or 

financial guaranty insurance to a viatical settlement provider, purchaser, financing entity, special 
purpose entity or related provider trust,e. a natural person who enters into or effectuates no more 
than one agreement in a calendar year for the transfer of life insurance policies for any value less 
than the expected death benefit,f. a financing entity,g. a special purpose entity,h. a related 
provider trust,i. a viatical settlement purchaser, orj. any other person that the Commissioner 
determines is not the type of person intended to be covered by the definition of viatical 
settlement provider;18. "Viatical settlement purchaser" means a person who provides a sum of 
money as consideration for a life insurance policy or an interest in the death benefits of a life 
insurance policy, or a person who owns or acquires or is entitled to a beneficial interest in a trust 
that owns a viatical settlement contract or is the beneficiary of a life insurance policy that has 
been or will be the subject of a viatical settlement contract, for the purpose of deriving an 
economic benefit. Viatical settlement purchaser does not include:a. a licensee under the Viatical 
Settlements Act of 2008, orb. an accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as defined, 
respectively, in Rule 501(a) or Rule 144A promulgated under the Federal Securities Act of 1933, 
as amended,c. a financing entity,d. a special purpose entity,e. a related provider 
trust;19. "Viaticated policy" means a life insurance policy or certificate that has been acquired by 
a viatical settlement provider pursuant to a viatical settlement contract; and20. "Viator" means 
the owner of a life insurance policy or a certificate holder under a group policy who resides in 
this state and enters or seeks to enter into a viatical settlement contract. For the purposes of the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, a viator shall not be limited to an owner of a life insurance 
policy or a certificate holder under a group policy insuring the life of an individual with a 
terminal or chronic illness or condition except where specifically addressed. If there is more than 
one viator on a single policy and the viators are residents of different states, the transaction shall 
be governed by the law of the state in which the viator having the largest percentage ownership 
resides or, if the viators hold equal ownership, the state of residence of one viator agreed upon in 
writing by all the viators. Viator does not include:a. a licensee under the Viatical Settlements Act 
of 2008, including a life insurance producer acting as a viatical settlement broker pursuant to the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008,b. qualified institutional buyer as defined, respectively, in Rule 
144A promulgated under the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended,c. a financing 
entity,d. a special purpose entity, ore. a related provider trust. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.2 
 
Section 4055.3 - License required - Application procedures - Renewal - Authority granted by 
license - Nonresidents - New or revised information - TrainingA.1. A person shall not operate as 
a viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker without first obtaining a license from 
the Insurance Commissioner of the state of residence of the viator.2.a. A life insurance producer 
who has been duly licensed as a resident insurance producer with a life line of authority in this 
state or his or her home state for at least one (1) year and is licensed as a nonresident producer in 
this state shall be deemed to meet the licensing requirements of this section and shall be 
permitted to operate as a viatical settlement broker.b. Not later than thirty (30) days from the first 
day of operating as a viatical settlement broker, the life insurance producer shall notify the 
Commissioner that he or she is acting as a viatical settlement broker on a form prescribed by the 
Commissioner, and shall pay any applicable fee to be determined by the Commissioner. 
Notification shall include an acknowledgement by the life insurance producer that he or she will 
operate as a viatical settlement broker in accordance with the Viatical Settlements Act of 

2008.c. The insurer that issued the policy being viaticated shall not be responsible for any act or 
omission of a viatical settlement broker or viatical settlement provider arising out of or in 
connection with the viatical settlement transaction, unless the insurer receives compensation for 
the placement of a viatical settlement contract from the viatical settlement provider or viatical 
settlement broker in connection with the viatical settlement contract.3. A person licensed as an 
attorney, certified public accountant or financial planner accredited by a nationally recognized 
accreditation agency, who is retained to represent the viator, whose compensation is not paid 
directly or indirectly by the viatical settlement provider, may negotiate viatical settlement 
contracts on behalf of the viator without having to obtain a license as a viatical settlement 
broker.B. Application for a viatical settlement provider or a viatical settlement broker license 
shall be made to the Commissioner by the applicant on a form prescribed by the Commissioner. 
The application shall be accompanied by a fee of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00).C. Licenses 
may be renewed from year to year on the anniversary date upon payment of the annual renewal 
fees of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00). Failure to pay the fees by the renewal date results in 
expiration of the license.D. The applicant shall provide information on forms required by the 
Commissioner. The Commissioner shall have authority, at any time, to require the applicant to 
fully disclose the identity of all stockholders, partners, officers, members and employees, and the 
Commissioner may, in the exercise of the Commissioner's discretion, refuse to issue a license in 
the name of a legal entity if not satisfied that any officer, employee, stockholder, partner or 
member thereof who may materially influence the applicant's conduct meets the standards of the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.E. A license issued to a legal entity authorizes all partners, 
officers, members and designated employees to act as viatical settlement providers, viatical 
settlement brokers as applicable, under the license, and all those persons shall be named in the 
application and any supplements to the application.F. Upon the filing of an application and the 
payment of the license fee, the Commissioner shall make an investigation of each applicant and 
issue a license if the Commissioner finds that the applicant:1. If a viatical settlement provider, 
has provided a detailed plan of operation;2. Is competent and trustworthy and intends to act in 
good faith in the capacity involved by the license applied for;3. Has a good business reputation 
and has had experience, training or education so as to be qualified in the business for which the 
license is applied for;4.a. If a viatical settlement provider, has demonstrated evidence of financial 
responsibility in a format prescribed by the Commissioner, through a surety bond executed and 
issued by an insurer authorized to issue surety bonds in this state, a policy of errors and 
omissions insurance, or a deposit of cash, certificates of deposit or securities or any combination 
thereof in the amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00), orb. If a viatical settlement 
broker, has demonstrated evidence of financial responsibility in a format prescribed by the 
Commissioner, through a surety bond executed and issued by an insurer authorized to issue 
surety bonds in this state, a policy of errors and omissions insurance, or a deposit of cash, 
certificates of deposit or securities or any combination thereof in the amount of Fifty Thousand 
Dollars ($50,000.00), orc. The Commissioner may ask for evidence of financial responsibility at 
any time the Commissioner deems necessary;5. If a legal entity, provides a certificate of good 
standing from the state of its domicile; and6. If a viatical settlement provider or viatical 
settlement broker, has provided an antifraud plan that meets the requirements of subsection G of 
Section 13 of Enrolled Senate Bill No. 1980 of the 2nd Session of the 51st Oklahoma 
Legislature.G. The Commissioner shall not issue a license to a nonresident applicant, unless a 
written designation of an agent for service of process is filed and maintained with the 
Commissioner, or the applicant has filed with the Commissioner the applicant's written 

irrevocable consent that any action against the applicant may be commenced against the 
applicant by service of process on the Commissioner.H. A viatical settlement provider, viatical 
settlement broker or viatical settlement investment agent shall provide to the Commissioner new 
or revised information about officers, ten percent (10%) or more stockholders, partners, 
directors, members or designated employees within thirty (30) days of the change.I. An 
individual licensed as a viatical settlement broker shall complete on a biennial basis eight (8) 
hours of training related to viatical settlements and viatical settlement transactions, as required 
by the Commissioner; provided, however, that a life insurance producer who is operating as a 
viatical settlement broker pursuant to paragraph 2 of subsection A of this section shall not be 
subject to the requirements of this subsection. Any person failing to meet the requirements of this 
subsection shall be subject to the penalties imposed by the Commissioner. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.3 
Section 4055.4 - Denial, suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of license - HearingA. The 
Insurance Commissioner may refuse to issue, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew the license of a 
viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker if the Commissioner finds that:1. There 
was any material misrepresentation in the application for the license;2. The licensee or any 
officer, partner, member or key management personnel has been convicted of fraudulent or 
dishonest practices, is subject to a final administrative action or is otherwise shown to be 
untrustworthy or incompetent;3. The viatical settlement provider demonstrates a pattern of 
unreasonable payments to viators;4. The licensee or any officer, partner, member or key 
management personnel has been found guilty of, or has pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to, any 
felony, or to a misdemeanor involving fraud or moral turpitude, regardless of whether a 
judgment of conviction has been entered by the court;5. The viatical settlement provider has 
entered into any viatical settlement contract that has not been approved pursuant to the Viatical 
Settlements Act of 2008;6. The viatical settlement provider has failed to honor contractual 
obligations set out in a viatical settlement contract;7. The licensee no longer meets the 
requirements for initial licensure;8. The viatical settlement provider has assigned, transferred or 
pledged a viaticated policy to a person other than a viatical settlement provider licensed in this 
state, viatical settlement purchaser, an accredited investor or qualified institutional buyer as 
defined respectively in Rule 501(a) or Rule 144A promulgated under the Federal Securities Act 
of 1933, as amended, financing entity, special purpose entity, or related provider trust; or9. The 
licensee or any officer, partner, member or key management personnel has violated any 
provision of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.B. The Commissioner may suspend, revoke or 
refuse to renew the license of a viatical settlement broker or a life insurance producer operating 
as a viatical settlement broker pursuant to the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 if the 
Commissioner finds that the viatical settlement broker or life insurance producer has violated the 
provisions of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 or has otherwise engaged in bad-faith conduct 
with one or more viators.C. If the Commissioner denies a license application or suspends, 
revokes or refuses to renew the license of a viatical settlement provider, viatical settlement 
broker or suspends, revokes, or refuses to renew a license of a life insurance producer operating 
as a viatical settlement broker pursuant to the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 the 
Commissioner shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.4 
Section 4055.5 - Filing of forms - Disapproval by Commissioner 

A person shall not use a viatical settlement contract form or provide to a viator a disclosure 
statement form in this state unless first filed with and approved by the Insurance Commissioner. 
The Commissioner shall disapprove a viatical settlement contract form or disclosure statement 
form if, in the Commissioner's opinion, the contract or provisions contained therein fail to meet 
the requirements of Sections 8, 9 and 12 and subsection B of Section 13 of this act or are 
unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public, or otherwise misleading or unfair to the 
viator. At the Commissioner's discretion, the Commissioner may require the submission of 
advertising material. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.5 
Section 4055.6 - Annual statement - Disclosure of insured's identity or informationA. Each 
viatical settlement provider shall file with the Insurance Commissioner on or before March 1 of 
each year an annual statement containing information as the Commissioner may prescribe by 
regulation. In addition to any other requirements, for any policy settled within five (5) years of 
the date of issuance of the policy, the annual statement shall specify the total number, aggregate 
face amount and life settlement proceeds of policies settled during the immediately preceding 
calendar year, together with a breakdown of the information by policy-issue year. The 
information shall be limited to only those transactions where the viator is a resident of this state. 
Individual transaction data regarding the business of viatical settlements or data that could 
compromise the privacy of personal, financial and health information of the viator or insured 
shall be filed with the Commissioner on a confidential basis.B. Except as otherwise allowed or 
required by law, a viatical settlement provider, viatical settlement broker, insurance company, 
insurance producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, or any other person with 
actual knowledge of an insured's identity, shall not disclose that identity as an insured, or the 
insured's financial or medical information to any other person unless the disclosure:1. Is 
necessary to effect a viatical settlement between the viator and a viatical settlement provider and 
the viator and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;2. Is provided in 
response to an investigation or examination by the Commissioner or any other governmental 
officer or agency or pursuant to the requirements of subsection C of Section 13 of this act;3. Is a 
term of or condition to the transfer of a policy by one viatical settlement provider to another 
viatical settlement provider;4. Is necessary to permit a financing entity, related provider trust or 
special purpose entity to finance the purchase of policies by a viatical settlement provider and the 
viator and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;5. Is necessary to allow 
the viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker or their authorized representatives to 
make contacts for the purpose of determining health status; or6. Is required to purchase stop loss 
coverage or financial guaranty insurance. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.6 
Section 4055.7 - Examination of licensees - Records retention - Confidentiality - Appointment of 
examiner - LiabilityA.1. The Insurance Commissioner may conduct an examination under the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 of a licensee as often as the Commissioner in his or her 
discretion deems appropriate after considering the factors set forth in this paragraph. In 
scheduling and determining the nature, scope, and frequency of the examinations, the 
Commissioner shall consider such matters as the consumer complaints, results of financial 
statement analyses and ratios, changes in management or ownership, actuarial opinions, report of 

independent certified public accountants, and other relevant criteria as determined by the 
Commissioner.2. For purposes of completing an examination of a licensee under the Viatical 
Settlements Act of 2008, the Commissioner may examine or investigate any person, or the 
business of any person, insofar as the examination or investigation is, in the sole discretion of the 
Commissioner, necessary or material to the examination of the licensee.3. In lieu of an 
examination under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 of any foreign or alien licensee licensed 
in this state, the Commissioner may, at the Commissioner's discretion, accept an examination 
report on the licensee as prepared by the Commissioner for the licensee's state of domicile or 
port-of-entry state.4. As far as practical, the examination of a foreign or alien licensee shall be 
made in cooperation with the insurance supervisory officials of other states in which the licensee 
transacts business.B.1. A person required to be licensed by the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 
shall for five (5) years for all settled policies and for two (2) years for all policies which are not 
settled retain copies of all:a. proposed, offered or executed contracts, purchase agreements, 
underwriting documents, policy forms, and applications from the date of the proposal, offer or 
execution of the contract or purchase agreement, whichever is later,b. all checks, drafts, 
electronic payment or other evidence and documentation related to the payment, transfer, deposit 
or release of funds from the date of the transaction, andc. all other records and documents related 
to the requirements of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.2. This subsection does not relieve a 
person of the obligation to produce these documents to the Commissioner after the retention 
period has expired if the person has retained the documents.3. Records required to be retained by 
this subsection must be legible and complete and may be retained in paper, photograph, 
microprocess, magnetic, mechanical, or electronic media, or by any process that accurately 
reproduces or forms a durable medium for the reproduction of a record.C.1. Upon determining 
that an examination should be conducted, the Commissioner shall issue an examination warrant 
appointing one or more examiners to perform the examination and instructing them as to the 
scope of the examination. In conducting the examination, the examiner shall observe those 
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Examiners Handbook adopted by the National 
Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC). The Commissioner may also employ such 
other guidelines or procedures as the Commissioner may deem appropriate.2. Every licensee or 
person from whom information is sought, its officers, directors and agents shall provide to the 
examiners timely, convenient and free access at all reasonable hours at its offices to all books, 
records, accounts, papers, documents, assets and computer or other recordings relating to the 
property, assets, business and affairs of the licensee being examined. The officers, directors, 
employees and agents of the licensee or person shall facilitate the examination and aid in the 
examination so far as it is in their power to do so. The refusal of a licensee, by its officers, 
directors, employees or agents, to submit to examination or to comply with any reasonable 
written request of the Commissioner shall be grounds for suspension or refusal of, or nonrenewal 
of any license or authority held by the licensee to engage in the viatical settlement business or 
other business subject to the Commissioner's jurisdiction. Any proceedings for suspension, 
revocation or refusal of any license or authority shall be conducted in accordance with the 
Administrative Procedures Act.3. The Commissioner shall have the power to issue subpoenas, to 
administer oaths and to examine under oath any person as to any matter pertinent to the 
examination. Upon the failure or refusal of a person to obey a subpoena, the Commissioner may 
petition a court of competent jurisdiction, and upon proper showing, the Court may enter an 
order compelling the witness to appear and testify or produce documentary evidence. Failure to 
obey the court order shall be punishable as contempt of court.4. When making an examination 

under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, the Commissioner may retain attorneys, appraisers, 
independent actuaries, independent certified public accountants or other professionals and 
specialists as examiners, the reasonable cost of which shall be borne by the licensee that is the 
subject of the examination.5. Nothing contained in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 shall be 
construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to terminate or suspend an examination in order 
to pursue other legal or regulatory action pursuant to the insurance laws of this state. Findings of 
fact and conclusions made pursuant to any examination shall be prima facie evidence in any 
legal or regulatory action.6. Nothing contained in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 shall be 
construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to use and, if appropriate, to make public any 
final or preliminary examination report, any examiner or licensee workpapers or other 
documents, or any other information discovered or developed during the course of any 
examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action which the Commissioner may, in 
his or her sole discretion, deem appropriate.D.1. Examination reports shall be comprised of only 
facts appearing upon the books, records or other documents of the licensee, its agents or other 
persons examined, or as ascertained from the testimony of its officers or agents or other persons 
examined concerning its affairs, and such conclusions and recommendations as the examiners 
find reasonably warranted from the facts.2. No later than sixty (60) days following completion of 
the examination, the examiner in charge shall file with the Commissioner a verified written 
report of examination under oath. Upon receipt of the verified report, the Commissioner shall 
transmit the report to the licensee examined, together with a notice that shall afford the licensee 
examined a reasonable opportunity of not more than thirty (30) days to make a written 
submission or rebuttal with respect to any matters contained in the examination report.3. In the 
event the Commissioner determines that regulatory action is appropriate as a result of an 
examination, the Commissioner may initiate any proceedings or actions provided by 
law.E.1. Names and individual identification data for all viators shall be considered private and 
confidential information and shall not be disclosed by the Commissioner, unless required by 
law.2. Except as otherwise provided in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, all examination 
reports, working papers, recorded information, documents and copies thereof produced by, 
obtained by or disclosed to the Commissioner or any other person in the course of an 
examination made under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, or in the course of analysis or 
investigation by the Commissioner of the financial condition or market conduct of a licensee 
shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to the Oklahoma Open Records 
Act, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in 
evidence in any private civil action. The Commissioner is authorized to use the documents, 
materials or other information in the furtherance of any regulatory or legal action brought as part 
of the Commissioner's official duties.3. Documents, materials or other information, including, 
but not limited to, all working papers, and copies thereof, in the possession or control of the 
NAIC and its affiliates and subsidiaries shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be 
subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any 
private civil action if they are:a. created, produced or obtained by or disclosed to the NAIC and 
its affiliates and subsidiaries in the course of assisting an examination made under this act, or 
assisting a Commissioner in the analysis or investigation of the financial condition or market 
conduct of a licensee, orb. disclosed to the NAIC and its affiliates and subsidiaries under 
paragraph 4 of this subsection by a Commissioner. For the purposes of paragraph 2 of this 
subsection, "act" means the law of another state or jurisdiction that is substantially similar to the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.4. Neither the Commissioner nor any person that received the 

documents, material or other information while acting under the authority of the Commissioner, 
including the NAIC and its affiliates and subsidiaries, shall be permitted to testify in any private 
civil action concerning any confidential documents, materials or information subject to 
paragraph 1 of this subsection.5. In order to assist in the performance of the Commissioner's 
duties, the Commissioner:a. may share documents, materials or other information, including the 
confidential and privileged documents, materials or information subject to paragraph 1 of this 
subsection, with other state, federal and international regulatory agencies, with the NAIC and its 
affiliates and subsidiaries, and with state, federal and international law enforcement authorities, 
provided that the recipient agrees to maintain the confidentiality and privileged status of the 
document, material, communication or other information, andb. may receive documents, 
materials, communications or information, including otherwise confidential and privileged 
documents, materials or information, from the NAIC and its affiliates and subsidiaries, and from 
regulatory and law enforcement officials of other foreign or domestic jurisdictions, and shall 
maintain as confidential or privileged any document, material or information received with 
notice or the understanding that it is confidential or privileged under the laws of the jurisdiction 
that is the source of the document, material or information.6. No waiver of any applicable 
privilege or claim of confidentiality in the documents, materials or information shall occur as a 
result of disclosure to the Commissioner under this section or as a result of sharing as authorized 
in paragraph 5 of this subsection.7. A privilege established under the law of any state or 
jurisdiction that is substantially similar to the privilege established under this subsection shall be 
available and enforced in any proceeding in, and in any court of, this state.8. Nothing contained 
in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 shall prevent or be construed as prohibiting the 
Commissioner from disclosing the content of an examination report, preliminary examination 
report or results, or any matter relating thereto, to the Commissioner of any other state or 
country, or to law enforcement officials of this or any other state or agency of the federal 
government at any time or to the NAIC, so long as such agency or office receiving the report or 
matters relating thereto agrees in writing to hold it confidential and in a manner consistent with 
the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.F.1. An examiner may not be appointed by the 
Commissioner if the examiner, either directly or indirectly, has a conflict of interest or is 
affiliated with the management of or owns a pecuniary interest in any person subject to 
examination under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008. This section shall not be construed to 
automatically preclude an examiner from being:a. a viator,b. an insured in a viaticated insurance 
policy, orc. a beneficiary in an insurance policy that is proposed to be 
viaticated.2. Notwithstanding the requirements of this paragraph, the Commissioner may retain 
from time to time, on an individual basis, qualified actuaries, certified public accountants, or 
other similar individuals who are independently practicing their professions, even though these 
persons may from time to time be similarly employed or retained by persons subject to 
examination under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.G.1. No cause of action shall arise nor 
shall any liability be imposed against the Commissioner, the Commissioner's authorized 
representatives or any examiner appointed by the Commissioner for any statements made or 
conduct performed in good faith while carrying out the provisions of the Viatical Settlements Act 
of 2008.2. No cause of action shall arise, nor shall any liability be imposed against any person 
for the act of communicating or delivering information or data to the Commissioner or the 
Commissioner's authorized representative or examiner pursuant to an examination made under 
the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, if the act of communication or delivery was performed in 
good faith and without fraudulent intent or the intent to deceive. This paragraph does not 

abrogate or modify in any way any common law or statutory privilege or immunity heretofore 
enjoyed by any person identified in paragraph 1 of this subsection.3. A person identified in 
paragraph 1 or 2 of this subsection shall be entitled to an award of attorney fees and costs if he or 
she is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel, slander or any other relevant tort 
arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of this act and the party bringing the action 
was not substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of this section a proceeding is 
"substantially justified" if it had a reasonable basis in law or fact at the time that it was 
initiated.H. The Commissioner may investigate suspected fraudulent viatical settlement acts and 
persons engaged in the business of viatical settlements. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.7 
Section 4055.8 - Disclosures to viatorA. With each application for a viatical settlement, a viatical 
settlement provider or viatical settlement broker shall provide the viator with at least the 
following disclosures no later than the time the application for the viatical settlement contract is 
signed by all parties. The disclosures shall be provided in a separate document that is signed by 
the viator and the viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker, and shall provide the 
following information:1. There are possible alternatives to viatical settlement contracts including 
any accelerated death benefits or policy loans offered under the viator's life insurance 
policy;2. That a viatical settlement broker represents exclusively the viator, and not the insurer or 
the viatical settlement provider, and owes a fiduciary duty to the viator, including a duty to act 
according to the viator's instructions and in the best interest of the viator;3. Some or all of the 
proceeds of the viatical settlement may be taxable under federal income tax and state franchise 
and income taxes, and assistance should be sought from a professional tax advisor;4. Proceeds of 
the viatical settlement could be subject to the claims of creditors;5. Receipt of the proceeds of a 
viatical settlement may adversely affect the viator's eligibility for Medicaid or other government 
benefits or entitlements, and advice should be obtained from the appropriate government 
agencies;6. The viator has the right to rescind a viatical settlement contract before the earlier of 
thirty (30) calendar days after the date upon which the viatical settlement contract is executed by 
all parties or fifteen (15) calendar days after the viatical settlement proceeds have been paid to 
the viator. Rescission, if exercised by the viator, is effective only if both notice of the rescission 
is given, and the viator repays all proceeds and any premiums, loans and loan interest paid on 
account of the viatical settlement within the rescission period. If the insured dies during the 
rescission period, the viatical settlement contract shall be deemed to have been rescinded, subject 
to repayment by the viator or the viator's estate of all viatical settlement proceeds and any 
premiums, loans and loan interest on the viatical settlement within sixty (60) days of the 
insured's death;7. Funds will be sent to the viator within three (3) business days after the viatical 
settlement provider has received the insurer's or group administrator's written acknowledgment 
that ownership of the policy or interest in the certificate has been transferred and the beneficiary 
has been designated;8. Entering into a viatical settlement contract may cause other rights or 
benefits, including conversion rights and waiver of premium benefits that may exist under the 
policy or certificate, to be forfeited by the viator. Assistance should be sought from a financial 
adviser;9. Disclosure to a viator shall include distribution of a brochure describing the process of 
viatical settlements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioner's (NAIC's) form for 
the brochure shall be used unless another form is developed or approved by the Insurance 
Commissioner;10. The disclosure document shall contain the following language: "All medical, 
financial or personal information solicited or obtained by a viatical settlement provider or 

viatical settlement broker about an insured, including the insured's identity or the identity of 
family members, a spouse or a significant other may be disclosed as necessary to effect the 
viatical settlement between the viator and the viatical settlement provider. If you are asked to 
provide this information, you will be asked to consent to the disclosure. The information may be 
provided to someone who buys the policy or provides funds for the purchase. You may be asked 
to renew your permission to share information every two (2) years."; and11. Following execution 
of a viatical contract, the insured may be contacted for the purpose of determining the insured's 
health status and to confirm the insured's residential or business street address and telephone 
number, or as otherwise provided in the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008. This contact shall be 
limited to once every three (3) months if the insured has a life expectancy of more than one (1) 
year, and no more than once per month if the insured has a life expectancy of one (1) year or 
less. All such contacts shall be made only by a viatical settlement provider licensed in the state in 
which the viator resided at the time of the viatical settlement, or by the authorized representative 
of a duly licensed viatical settlement provider.B. A viatical settlement provider shall provide the 
viator with at least the following disclosures no later than the date the viatical settlement contract 
is signed by all parties. The disclosures shall be conspicuously displayed in the viatical 
settlement contract or in a separate document signed by the viator and provide the following 
information:1. The affiliation, if any, between the viatical settlement provider and the issuer of 
the insurance policy to be viaticated;2. The document shall include the name, business address 
and telephone number of the viatical settlement provider;3. Any affiliations or contractual 
arrangements between the viatical settlement provider and the viatical settlement purchaser;4. If 
an insurance policy to be viaticated has been issued as a joint policy or involves family riders or 
any coverage of a life other than the insured under the policy to be viaticated, the viator shall be 
informed of the possible loss of coverage on the other lives under the policy and shall be advised 
to consult with his or her insurance producer or the insurer issuing the policy for advice on the 
proposed viatical settlement;5. State the dollar amount of the current death benefit payable to the 
viatical settlement provider under the policy or certificate. If known, the viatical settlement 
provider shall also disclose the availability of any additional guaranteed insurance benefits, the 
dollar amount of any accidental death and dismemberment benefits under the policy or certificate 
and the extent to which the viator's interest in those benefits will be transferred as a result of the 
viatical settlement contract; and6. State whether the funds will be escrowed with an independent 
third party during the transfer process, and if so, provide the name, business address, and 
telephone number of the independent third-party escrow agent, and the fact that the viator or 
owner may inspect or receive copies of the relevant escrow or trust agreements or 
documents.C. A viatical settlement broker shall provide the viator with at least the following 
disclosures no later than the date the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties. The 
disclosures shall be conspicuously displayed in the viatical settlement contract or in a separate 
document signed by the viator and provide the following information:1. The name, business 
address and telephone number of the viatical settlement broker;2. A full, complete and accurate 
description of all offers, counter-offers, acceptances and rejections relating to the proposed 
viatical settlement contract; and3. A written disclosure of any affiliations or contractual 
arrangements between the viatical settlement broker and any person making an offer in 
connection with the proposed viatical settlement contracts.D. If the viatical settlement provider 
transfers ownership or changes the beneficiary of the insurance policy, the provider shall 
communicate in writing the change in ownership or beneficiary to the insured within twenty (20) 
days after the change.E. A viatical settlement provider or its viatical settlement investment agent 

shall provide the viatical settlement purchaser with at least the following disclosures no later than 
at the time of the assignment, transfer or sale of all or a portion of an insurance policy. The 
disclosures shall be contained in a document signed by the viatical settlement purchaser and 
viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement investment agent, and shall make the following 
disclosures to the viatical settlement purchaser:1. Disclose all the life expectancy certifications 
obtained by the provider in the process of determining the price paid to the viator;2. State 
whether premium payments or other costs related to the policy have been escrowed. If escrowed, 
state the date upon which the escrowed funds will be depleted and whether the purchaser will be 
responsible for payment of premiums thereafter and, if so, the amount of the premiums;3. State 
whether premium payments or other costs related to the policy have been waived. If waived, 
disclose whether the investor will be responsible for payment of the premiums if the insurer that 
wrote the policy terminates the waiver after purchase and the amount of those 
premiums;4. Disclose the type of policy offered or sold, i.e., whole life, term life, universal life 
or a group policy certificate, any additional benefits contained in the policy, and the current 
status of the policy;5. If the policy is term insurance, disclose the special risks associated with 
term insurance including, but not limited to, the purchaser's responsibility for additional 
premiums if the viator continues the term policy at the end of the current term;6. State whether 
the policy is contestable;7. State whether the insurer that wrote the policy has any additional 
rights that could negatively affect or extinguish the purchaser's rights under the viatical 
settlement contract, what these rights are, and under what conditions these rights are activated; 
and8. State the name and address of the person responsible for monitoring the insured's 
condition. Describe how often the monitoring of the insured's condition is done, how the date of 
death is determined, and how and when this information will be transmitted to the purchaser. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.8 
Section 4055.9 - Procedures for entering into contracts - Rescission - Escrow - Minimum 
discounts - Contract to determine health statusA.1. A viatical settlement provider entering into a 
viatical settlement contract shall first obtain:a. if the viator is the insured, a written statement 
from a licensed attending physician that the viator is of sound mind and under no constraint or 
undue influence to enter into a viatical settlement contract, andb. a document in which the 
insured consents to the release of his or her medical records to a licensed viatical settlement 
provider, viatical settlement broker and the insurance company that issued the life insurance 
policy covering the life of the insured.2. Within twenty (20) days after a viator executes 
documents necessary to transfer any rights under an insurance policy or within twenty (20) days 
of entering any agreement, option, promise or any other form of understanding, expressed or 
implied, to viaticate the policy, the viatical settlement provider shall give written notice to the 
insurer that issued that insurance policy that the policy has or will become a viaticated policy. 
The notice shall be accompanied by the documents required by paragraph 3 of this 
subsection.3. Within twenty (20) days after a viator executes documents necessary to transfer 
any rights under an insurance policy or within twenty (20) days of entering any agreement, 
option, promise or any other form of understanding, expressed or implied, to viaticate the policy, 
the viatical provider shall deliver a copy of the medical release required under subparagraph b of 
paragraph 1 of this subsection, a copy of the viator's application for the viatical settlement 
contract, the notice required under paragraph 2 of this subsection and a request for verification of 
coverage to the insurer that issued the life policy that is the subject of the viatical transaction. 
The National Association of Insurance Commissioner's (NAIC's) form for verification of 

coverage shall be used unless another form is developed and approved by the Insurance 
Commissioner.4. The insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage submitted on 
an approved form by a viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker within thirty (30) 
calendar days of the date the request is received and shall indicate whether, based on the medical 
evidence and documents provided, the insurer intends to pursue an investigation at this time 
regarding the validity of the insurance contract or possible fraud. The insurer shall accept a 
request for verification of coverage made on an NAIC form, any form agreed upon by the insurer 
and the requestor, or any other form approved by the Commissioner. The insurer shall accept an 
original or facsimile or electronic copy of such request and any accompanying authorization 
signed by the viator. Failure by the insurer to meet its obligations under this subsection shall be a 
violation of subsection C of Section 10 and Section 15 of Enrolled Senate Bill No. 1980 of the 
2nd Session of the 51st Oklahoma Legislature.5. Prior to or at the time of execution of the 
viatical settlement contract, the viatical settlement provider shall obtain a witnessed document in 
which the viator consents to the viatical settlement contract, represents that the viator has a full 
and complete understanding of the viatical settlement contract, that he or she has a full and 
complete understanding of the benefits of the life insurance policy, acknowledges that he or she 
is entering into the viatical settlement contract freely and voluntarily and, for persons with a 
terminal or chronic illness or condition, acknowledges that the insured has a terminal or chronic 
illness and that the terminal or chronic illness or condition was diagnosed after the life insurance 
policy was issued.6. The insurer shall not unreasonably delay effecting change of ownership or 
beneficiary with any life settlement contract entered into in this state or with a resident of this 
state.7. If a viatical settlement broker performs any of these activities required of the viatical 
settlement provider, the provider is deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of this 
section.B. All medical information solicited or obtained by any licensee shall be subject to the 
applicable provisions of state law relating to confidentiality of medical information.C. All 
viatical settlement contracts entered into in this state shall provide the viator with an absolute 
right to rescind the contract before the earlier of thirty (30) calendar days after the date upon 
which the viatical settlement contract is executed by all parties or fifteen (15) calendar days after 
the viatical settlement proceeds have been sent to the viator. Rescission by the viator may be 
conditioned upon the viator both giving notice and repaying to the viatical settlement provider 
within the rescission period all proceeds of the settlement and any premiums, loans and loan 
interest paid by or on behalf of the viatical settlement provider in connection with or as a 
consequence of the viatical settlement. If the insured dies during the rescission period, the 
viatical settlement contract shall be deemed to have been rescinded, subject to repayment to the 
viatical settlement provider or purchaser of all viatical settlement proceeds, and any premiums, 
loans and loan interest that have been paid by the viatical settlement provider or purchaser, 
which shall be paid within sixty (60) calendar days of the death of the insured. In the event of 
any rescission, if the viatical settlement provider has paid commissions or other compensation to 
a viatical settlement broker in connection with the rescinded transaction, the viatical settlement 
broker shall refund all such commissions and compensation to the viatical settlement provider 
within five (5) business days following receipt of written demand from the viatical settlement 
provider, which demand shall be accompanied by either the viator's notice of rescission if 
rescinded at the election of the viator, or notice of the death of the insured if rescinded by reason 
of the death of the insured within the applicable rescission period.D. The viatical settlement 
provider shall instruct the viator to send the executed documents required to effect the change in 
ownership, assignment or change in beneficiary directly to the independent escrow agent. Within 

three (3) business days after the date the escrow agent receives the document or from the date the 
viatical settlement provider receives the documents, if the viator erroneously provides the 
documents directly to the provider, the provider shall pay or transfer the proceeds of the viatical 
settlement into an escrow or trust account maintained in a state- or federally-chartered financial 
institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). 
Upon payment of the settlement proceeds into the escrow account, the escrow agent shall deliver 
the original change in ownership, assignment or change in beneficiary forms to the viatical 
settlement provider or related provider trust or other designated representative of the viatical 
settlement provider. Upon the escrow agent's receipt of the acknowledgment of the properly 
completed transfer of ownership, assignment or designation of beneficiary from the insurance 
company, the escrow agent shall pay the settlement proceeds to the viator.E. Failure to tender 
consideration to the viator for the viatical settlement contract within the time set forth in the 
disclosure pursuant to paragraph 7 of subsection A of Section 8 of Enrolled Senate Bill No. 1980 
of the 2nd Session of the 51st Oklahoma Legislature renders the viatical settlement contract 
voidable by the viator for lack of consideration until the time consideration is tendered to and 
accepted by the viator. Funds shall be deemed sent by a viatical settlement provider to a viator as 
of the date that the escrow agent either releases funds for wire transfer to the viator, places a 
check for delivery to the viator via United States Postal Service or other nationally recognized 
delivery service or make an electronic payment to the viator.F. In order to assure that a viator, at 
the time of the viatical settlement has a life expectancy of less than two (2) years, receives 
reasonable return for viaticating an insurance policy, the following shall be minimum discounts: 
Insured's Life Expectancy 
Minimum Percentage of Face Value Less Outstanding 
Loans Received By Viator 
Less than six (6) months 
80% 
At least six (6) but less than twelve (12) months 
70% 
At least twelve (12) but less than eighteen (18) 
months 
65% 
At least eighteen (18) months but less than 
twenty-four (24) months 
60% 
G. Contacts with the insured for the purpose of determining the health status of the insured by 
the viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker after the viatical settlement has 
occurred shall only be made by a viatical settlement provider or broker licensed in this state or its 
authorized representatives and shall be limited to once every three (3) months for insureds with a 
life expectancy of more than one (1) year, and to no more than once per month for insureds with 
a life expectancy of one (1) year or less. The provider or broker shall explain the procedure for 
these contacts at the time the viatical settlement contract is entered into. The limitations set forth 
in this subsection shall not apply to any contacts with an insured for reasons other than 
determining the insured's health status. Viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement 
brokers shall be responsible for the actions of their authorized representatives. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.9 
Section 4055.10 - Contracts within two years of issuance of insurance policy or certificate - 
Requests for verification of coverage or transfer of policyA. It is a violation of the Viatical 
Settlements Act of 2008 for any person to enter into a viatical settlement contract at any time 
prior to the application or issuance of a policy which is the subject of viatical settlement contract 
or within a two-year period commencing with the date of issuance of the insurance policy or 

certificate unless the viator certifies to the viatical settlement provider that one or more of the 
following conditions have been met within the two-year period:1. The policy was issued upon 
the viator's exercise of conversion rights arising out of a group or individual policy, provided the 
total of the time covered under the conversion policy plus the time covered under the prior policy 
is at least twenty-four (24) months. The time covered under a group policy shall be calculated 
without regard to any change in insurance carriers, provided the coverage has been continuous 
and under the same group sponsorship; or2. The viator submits independent evidence to the 
viatical settlement provider that one or more of the following conditions have been met within 
the two-year period:a. the viator or insured is terminally or chronically ill,b. the viator's spouse 
dies,c. the viator divorces his or her spouse,d. the viator retires from full-time employment,e. the 
viator becomes physically or mentally disabled and a physician determines that the disability 
prevents the viator from maintaining full-time employment,f. a final order, judgment or decree is 
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, on the application of a creditor of the viator, 
adjudicating the viator bankrupt or insolvent, or approving a petition seeking reorganization of 
the viator or appointing a receiver, trustee or liquidator to all or a substantial part of the viator's 
assets, org. the viator involuntarily experiences a significant decrease in income that is 
unexpected and that also reasonably impairs the reasonable ability of the viator to pay the policy 
premiums.B. Copies of the independent evidence described in paragraph 2 of subsection A of 
this section and documents required by subsection A of Section 9 of this act shall be submitted to 
the insurer when the viatical settlement provider or other party entering into a viatical settlement 
contract with a viator submits a request to the insurer for verification of coverage. The copies 
shall be accompanied by a letter of attestation from the viatical settlement provider that the 
copies are true and correct copies of the documents received by the viatical settlement 
provider.C. If the viatical settlement provider submits to the insurer a copy of the owner or 
insured's certification described in and the independent evidence required by paragraph 2 of 
subsection A of this section when the provider submits a request to the insurer to effect the 
transfer of the policy or certificate to the viatical settlement provider, the copy shall be deemed 
to conclusively establish that the viatical settlement contract satisfies the requirements of this 
section and the insurer shall timely respond to the request.D. No insurer may, as a condition of 
responding to a request for verification of coverage or effecting the transfer of a policy pursuant 
to a viatical settlement contract, require that the viator, insured, viatical settlement provider or 
viatical settlement broker sign any forms, disclosures, consent or waiver form that has not been 
expressly approved by the Insurance Commissioner for use in connection with viatical settlement 
contracts in this state.E. Upon receipt of a properly completed request for change of ownership 
or beneficiary of a policy, the insurer shall respond in writing within thirty (30) calendar days 
with written acknowledgement confirming that the change has been effected or specifying the 
reasons why the requested change cannot be processed. The insurer shall not unreasonably delay 
effecting change of ownership or beneficiary and shall not otherwise seek to interfere with any 
viatical settlement contract lawfully entered into in this state. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.10 
Section 4055.11 - Fraudulent viatical settlement acts - Filing of advertising - "Free" insurance - 
Additional consideration - Emphasis on settling policy prohibitedA. With respect to any viatical 
settlement contract or insurance policy, no viatical settlement broker knowingly shall solicit an 
offer from, effectuate a viatical settlement with or make a sale to any viatical settlement 
provider, viatical settlement purchaser, financing entity or related provider trust that is 

controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such viatical settlement broker unless 
the relationship is disclosed to the viator.B. With respect to any viatical settlement contract or 
insurance policy, no viatical settlement provider knowingly may enter into a viatical settlement 
contract with a viator, if, in connection with such viatical settlement contract, anything of value 
will be paid to a viatical settlement broker that is controlling, controlled by, or under common 
control with such viatical settlement provider or the viatical settlement purchaser, financing 
entity or related provider trust that is involved in such viatical settlement contract unless the 
relationship is disclosed to the viator.C. A violation of subsection A or B of this section shall be 
deemed a fraudulent viatical settlement act.D. No viatical settlement provider shall enter into a 
viatical settlement contract unless the viatical settlement promotional, advertising and marketing 
materials, as may be prescribed by regulation, have been filed with the Insurance Commissioner. 
In no event shall any marketing materials expressly reference that the insurance is "free" for any 
period of time. The inclusion of any reference in the marketing materials that would cause a 
viator to reasonably believe that the insurance is free for any period of time shall be considered a 
violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.E. No life insurance producer, insurance 
company, viatical settlement broker, viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement 
investment agent shall make any statement or representation to the applicant or policyholder in 
connection with the sale or financing of a life insurance policy to the effect that the insurance is 
free or without cost to the policyholder for any period of time unless provided in the 
policy.F. No person providing premium financing shall receive any proceeds, fees or other 
consideration from the policy or owner of the policy that is in addition to the amounts required to 
pay principal, interest, and any other reasonable costs or expenses in type and amount incurred 
by the lender or borrower in connection with the premium finance agreement, except for the 
event of a default, unless either the default on the loan or transfer of the policy in connection 
with the default occurs pursuant to an agreement or understanding with any other person for the 
purpose of evading regulation under this act. Any payments, charges, fees or other amounts 
received by a person providing premium financing in violation of this subsection shall be 
remitted to the original owner of the policy or to the estate of the owner if the owner is deceased 
at the time of the determination of the overpayment.G. No person shall issue, solicit, market or 
otherwise promote the purchase of an insurance policy for the purpose of, or with an emphasis 
on, settling the policy. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.11 
Section 4055.12 - Advertisement of contracts, products or services - Guidelines and 
standardsA. The purpose of this section is to provide prospective viators with clear and 
unambiguous statements in the advertisement of viatical settlements and to assure the clear, 
truthful and adequate disclosure of the benefits, risks, limitations and exclusions of any viatical 
settlement contract. This purpose is intended to be accomplished by the establishment of 
guidelines and standards of permissible and impermissible conduct in the advertising of viatical 
settlements to assure that product descriptions are presented in a manner that prevents unfair, 
deceptive or misleading advertising and is conducive to accurate presentation and description of 
viatical settlements through the advertising media and material used by viatical settlement 
licensees.B. This section shall apply to any advertising of viatical settlement contracts or related 
products or services intended for dissemination in this state, including Internet advertising 
viewed by persons located in this state. Where disclosure requirements are established pursuant 
to federal regulation, this section shall be interpreted so as to minimize or eliminate conflict with 

federal regulation wherever possible.C. Every viatical settlement licensee shall establish and at 
all times maintain a system of control over the content, form and method of dissemination of all 
advertisements of its contracts, products and services. All advertisements, regardless of by whom 
written, created, designed or presented, shall be the responsibility of the viatical settlement 
licensees, as well as the individual who created or presented the advertisement. A system of 
control shall include regular routine notification, at least once a year, to agents and others 
authorized by the viatical settlement licensee who disseminate advertisements of the 
requirements and procedures for approval prior to the use of any advertisements not furnished by 
the viatical settlement licensee.D. Advertisements shall be truthful and not misleading in fact or 
by implication. The form and content of an advertisement of a viatical settlement contract shall 
be sufficiently complete and clear so as to avoid deception. It shall not have the capacity or 
tendency to mislead or deceive. Whether an advertisement has the capacity or tendency to 
mislead or deceive shall be determined by the Insurance Commissioner from the overall 
impression that the advertisement may be reasonably expected to create upon a person of average 
education or intelligence within the segment of the public to which it is directed.E. The 
information required to be disclosed under this section shall not be minimized, rendered obscure, 
or presented in an ambiguous fashion or intermingled with the text of the advertisement so as to 
be confusing or misleading.1. An advertisement shall not omit material information or use 
words, phrases, statements, references or illustrations if the omission or use has the capacity, 
tendency or effect of misleading or deceiving viators as to the nature or extent of any benefit, 
loss covered, premium payable, or state or federal tax consequence. The fact that the viatical 
settlement contract offered is made available for inspection prior to consummation of the sale, or 
an offer is made to refund the payment if the viator is not satisfied or that the viatical settlement 
contract includes a "free look" period that satisfies or exceeds legal requirements, does not 
remedy misleading statements.2. An advertisement shall not use the name or title of a life 
insurance company or a life insurance policy unless the advertisement has been approved by the 
insurer.3. An advertisement shall not state or imply that interest charged on an accelerated death 
benefit or a policy loan is unfair, inequitable or in any manner an incorrect or improper 
practice.4. The words "free", "no cost", "without cost", "no additional cost", "at no extra cost", or 
words of similar import shall not be used with respect to any benefit or service unless true. An 
advertisement may specify the charge for a benefit or a service or may state that a charge is 
included in the payment or use other appropriate language.5. Testimonials, appraisals or analysis 
used in advertisements must be genuine; represent the current opinion of the author; be 
applicable to the viatical settlement contract, product or service advertised, if any; and be 
accurately reproduced with sufficient completeness to avoid misleading or deceiving prospective 
viators as to the nature or scope of the testimonials, appraisal, analysis or endorsement. In using 
testimonials, appraisals or analysis, a licensee under the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 makes 
as its own all the statements contained therein, and the statements are subject to all the provisions 
of this section.a. If the individual making a testimonial, appraisal, analysis or an endorsement has 
a financial interest in the party making use of the testimonial, appraisal, analysis or endorsement, 
either directly or through a related entity as a stockholder, director, officer, employee or 
otherwise, or receives any benefit directly or indirectly other than required union scale wages, 
that fact shall be prominently disclosed in the advertisement.b. An advertisement shall not state 
or imply that a viatical settlement contract, benefit or service has been approved or endorsed by a 
group of individuals, society, association or other organization unless that is the fact and unless 
any relationship between an organization and the viatical settlement licensee is disclosed. If the 

entity making the endorsement or testimonial is owned, controlled or managed by the viatical 
settlement licensee, or receives any payment or other consideration from the viatical settlement 
licensee for making an endorsement or testimonial, that fact shall be disclosed in the 
advertisement.c. When an endorsement refers to benefits received under a viatical settlement 
contract all pertinent information shall be retained for a period of five (5) years after its 
use.F. An advertisement shall not contain statistical information unless it accurately reflects 
recent and relevant facts. The source of all statistics used in an advertisement shall be 
identified.G. An advertisement shall not disparage insurers, viatical settlement providers, viatical 
settlement brokers, viatical settlement investment agents, insurance producers, policies, services 
or methods of marketing.H. The name of the viatical settlement licensee shall be clearly 
identified in all advertisements about the licensee or its viatical settlement contract, products or 
services, and if any specific viatical settlement contract is advertised, the viatical settlement 
contract shall be identified either by form number or some other appropriate description. If an 
application is part of the advertisement, the name of the viatical settlement provider shall be 
shown on the application.I. An advertisement shall not use a trade name, group designation, 
name of the parent company of a viatical settlement licensee, name of a particular division of the 
viatical settlement licensee, service mark, slogan, symbol or other device or reference without 
disclosing the name of the viatical settlement licensee, if the advertisement would have the 
capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity of the viatical settlement 
licensee, or to create the impression that a company other than the viatical settlement licensee 
would have any responsibility for the financial obligation under a viatical settlement 
contract.J. An advertisement shall not use any combination of words, symbols or physical 
materials that by their content, phraseology, shape, color or other characteristics are so similar to 
a combination of words, symbols or physical materials used by a government program or agency 
or otherwise appear to be of such a nature that they tend to mislead prospective viators into 
believing that the solicitation is in some manner connected with a government program or 
agency.K. An advertisement may state that a viatical settlement licensee is licensed in the state 
where the advertisement appears, provided it does not exaggerate that fact or suggest or imply 
that competing viatical settlement licensees may not be so licensed. The advertisement may ask 
the audience to consult the licensee's web site or contact the department of insurance to find out 
if the state requires licensing and, if so, whether the viatical settlement provider, viatical 
settlement broker is licensed.L. An advertisement shall not create the impression that the viatical 
settlement provider, its financial condition or status, the payment of its claims or the merits, 
desirability, or advisability of its viatical settlement contracts are recommended or endorsed by 
any government entity.M. The name of the actual licensee shall be stated in all of its 
advertisements. An advertisement shall not use a trade name, any group designation, name of 
any affiliate or controlling entity of the licensee, service mark, slogan, symbol or other device in 
a manner that would have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity of 
the actual licensee or create the false impression that an affiliate or controlling entity would have 
any responsibility for the financial obligation of the licensee.N. An advertisement shall not 
directly or indirectly create the impression that any division or agency of the state or of the 
federal government endorses, approves or favors:1. Any viatical settlement licensee or its 
business practices or methods of operation;2. The merits, desirability or advisability of any 
viatical settlement contract;3. Any viatical settlement contract; or4. Any life insurance policy or 
life insurance company.O. If the advertiser emphasizes the speed with which the viatication will 
occur, the advertising must disclose the average time frame from completed application to the 

date of offer and from acceptance of the offer to receipt of the funds by the viator.P. If the 
advertising emphasizes the dollar amounts available to viators, the advertising shall disclose the 
average purchase price as a percent of face value obtained by viators contracting with the 
licensee during the past six (6) months. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.12 
 
Section 4055.13 - Prohibited acts - Warning statement - Provision of information on fraudulent 
acts - Liability - Antifraud initiativesA.1. A person shall not commit a fraudulent viatical 
settlement act.2. A person shall not knowingly or intentionally interfere with the enforcement of 
the provisions of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 or investigations of suspected or actual 
violations of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.3. A person in the business of viatical 
settlements shall not knowingly or intentionally permit any person convicted of a felony 
involving dishonesty or breach of trust to participate in the business of viatical 
settlements.B.1. Viatical settlements contracts and applications for viatical settlements, 
regardless of the form of transmission, shall contain the following statement or a substantially 
similar statement: 
"Any person who knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance or viatical 
settlement contract is guilty of a crime and may be subject to fines and confinement in prison." 
2. The lack of a statement as required in paragraph 1 of this subsection does not constitute a 
defense in any prosecution for a fraudulent viatical settlement act.C.1. Any person engaged in 
the business of viatical settlements having knowledge or a reasonable suspicion that a fraudulent 
viatical settlement act is being, will be or has been committed shall provide to the Insurance 
Commissioner such information as required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the 
Commissioner.2. Any other person having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent 
viatical settlement act is being, will be or has been committed may provide to the Commissioner 
the information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the Commissioner.D.1. No civil 
liability shall be imposed on and no cause of action shall arise from a person's furnishing 
information concerning suspected, anticipated or completed fraudulent viatical settlement acts or 
suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts, if the information is provided to or received 
from:a. the Commissioner or the Commissioner's employees, agents or representatives,b. federal, 
state or local law enforcement or regulatory officials or their employees, agents or 
representatives,c. a person involved in the prevention and detection of fraudulent viatical 
settlement acts or that person's agents, employees or representatives,d. the National Association 
of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), the 
North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), or their employees, agents or 
representatives, or other regulatory body overseeing life insurance, viatical settlements, securities 
or investment fraud, ore. the life insurer that issued the life insurance policy covering the life of 
the insured.2. Paragraph 1 of this subsection shall not apply to statements made with actual 
malice. In an action brought against a person for filing a report or furnishing other information 
concerning a fraudulent viatical settlement act, the party bringing the action shall plead 
specifically any allegation that paragraph 1 of this subsection does not apply because the person 
filing the report or furnishing the information did so with actual malice.3. A person furnishing 
information as identified in paragraph 1 of this subsection shall be entitled to an award of 
attorney fees and costs if he or she is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel, 

slander or any other relevant tort arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 and the party bringing the action was not substantially justified 
in doing so. For purposes of this section a proceeding is "substantially justified" if it had a 
reasonable basis in law or fact at the time that it was initiated. However, such an award does not 
apply to any person furnishing information concerning his or her own fraudulent viatical 
settlement acts.4. This section does not abrogate or modify common law or statutory privileges 
or immunities enjoyed by a person described in paragraph 1 of this subsection.E.1. The 
documents and evidence provided pursuant to subsection D of this section or obtained by the 
Commissioner in an investigation of suspected or actual fraudulent viatical settlement acts shall 
be privileged and confidential and shall not be a public record and shall not be subject to 
discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action.2. Paragraph 1 of this subsection does not 
prohibit release by the Commissioner of documents and evidence obtained in an investigation of 
suspected or actual fraudulent viatical settlement acts:a. in administrative or judicial proceedings 
to enforce laws administered by the Commissioner,b. to federal, state or local law enforcement 
or regulatory agencies, to an organization established for the purpose of detecting and preventing 
fraudulent viatical settlement acts or to the NAIC, orc. at the discretion of the Commissioner, to 
a person in the business of viatical settlements that is aggrieved by a fraudulent viatical 
settlement act.3. Release of documents and evidence under paragraph 2 of this subsection does 
not abrogate or modify the privilege granted in paragraph 1 of this subsection.F. This act shall 
not:1. Preempt the authority or relieve the duty of other law enforcement or regulatory agencies 
to investigate, examine and prosecute suspected violations of law;2. Prevent or prohibit a person 
from disclosing voluntarily information concerning viatical settlement fraud to a law 
enforcement or regulatory agency other than the Insurance Department;3. Preempt, supersede, or 
limit any provision of any state securities law or any rule, order, or notice issued thereunder; 
or4. Limit the powers granted elsewhere by the laws of this state to the Commissioner or an 
insurance fraud unit to investigate and examine possible violations of law and to take appropriate 
action against wrongdoers.G.1. Viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement brokers shall 
have in place antifraud initiatives reasonably calculated to detect, prosecute and prevent 
fraudulent viatical settlement acts. At the discretion of the Commissioner, the Commissioner 
may order, or a licensee may request and the Commissioner may grant, such modifications of the 
following required initiatives as necessary to ensure an effective antifraud program. The 
modifications may be more or less restrictive than the required initiatives so long as the 
modifications may reasonably be expected to accomplish the purpose of this section.2. Antifraud 
initiatives shall include:a. fraud investigators, who may be viatical settlement provider or viatical 
settlement broker employees or independent contractors, andb. an antifraud plan, which shall be 
submitted to the Commissioner. The antifraud plan shall include, but not be limited to:(1) a 
description of the procedures for detecting and investigating possible fraudulent viatical 
settlement acts and procedures for resolving material inconsistencies between medical records 
and insurance applications,(2) a description of the procedures for reporting possible fraudulent 
viatical settlement acts to the Commissioner,(3) a description of the plan for antifraud education 
and training of underwriters and other personnel, and(4) a description or chart outlining the 
organizational arrangement of the antifraud personnel who are responsible for the investigation 
and reporting of possible fraudulent viatical settlement acts and investigating unresolved material 
inconsistencies between medical records and insurance applications.3. Antifraud plans submitted 
to the Commissioner shall be privileged and confidential and shall not be a public record and 
shall not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action. 

Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.13 
Section 4055.14 - Injunction - Civil action - Cease and desist orders - Civil and criminal 
penaltiesA. In addition to the penalties and other enforcement provisions of the Viatical 
Settlements Act of 2008, if any person violates the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 or any 
regulation implementing the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, the Insurance Commissioner may 
seek an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction and may apply for temporary and 
permanent orders that the Commissioner determines are necessary to restrain the person from 
committing the violation.B. Any person damaged by the acts of a person in violation of the 
Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 may bring a civil action against the person committing the 
violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.C. The Commissioner may issue, in accordance 
with the Administrative Procedures Act, a cease and desist order upon a person that violates any 
provision of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, any regulation or order adopted by the 
Commissioner, or any written agreement entered into with the Commissioner.D. When the 
Commissioner finds that an activity in violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 presents 
an immediate danger to the public that requires an immediate final order, the Commissioner may 
issue an emergency cease and desist order reciting with particularity the facts underlying the 
findings. The emergency cease and desist order is effective immediately upon service of a copy 
of the order on the respondent and remains effective for ninety (90) days. If the Commissioner 
begins nonemergency cease and desist proceedings, the emergency cease and desist order 
remains effective, absent an order by a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to the 
Administrative Procedures Act.E. In addition to the penalties and other enforcement provisions 
of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, any person who violates the Viatical Settlements Act of 
2008 is subject to civil penalties of up to Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) per violation. 
Imposition of civil penalties shall be pursuant to an order of the Commissioner issued under 
Section 313 of Title 36 of the Oklahoma Statutes. The Commissioner's order may require a 
person found to be in violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 to make restitution to 
persons aggrieved by violations of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008.F. A person convicted of 
a violation of the Viatical Settlements Act by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be guilty of 
a felony punishable as follows:1. To imprisonment for not more than twenty (20) years or to 
payment of a fine of not more than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), or both, if the 
value of the viatical settlement contract is more than Thirty-five Thousand Dollars 
($35,000.00);2. To imprisonment for not more than ten (10) years or to payment of a fine of not 
more than Twenty Thousand Dollars ($20,000.00), or both, if the value of the viatical settlement 
contract is more than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) but not more than Thirty-
five Thousand Dollars ($35,000.00);3. To imprisonment for not more than five (5) years or to 
payment of a fine of not more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), or both, if the value of 
the viatical settlement contract is more than Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) but not more than 
Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00); or4. To imprisonment for not more than one 
(1) year or to payment of a fine of not more than Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00), or both, if 
the value of the viatical settlement contract is Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) or less. 
A person convicted of a violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 shall be ordered to pay 
restitution to persons aggrieved by the violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008. 
Restitution shall be ordered in addition to a fine or imprisonment, but not in lieu of a fine or 
imprisonment. 

G. Except for a fraudulent viatical settlement act committed by a viator, the enforcement 
provisions and penalties of this section shall not apply to a viator. A person convicted of a 
violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008 by a court of competent jurisdiction may be 
sentenced in accordance with paragraph 1, 2, 3 or 4 of subsection F of this section based on the 
greater of (i) the value of property, services, or other benefit wrongfully obtained or attempted to 
obtain, or (ii) the aggregate economic loss suffered by any person as a result of the violation. A 
person convicted of a fraudulent viatical settlement act must be ordered to pay restitution to 
persons aggrieved by the fraudulent viatical settlement act. Restitution must be ordered in 
addition to a fine or imprisonment but not in lieu of a fine or imprisonment. 
In any prosecution under paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of subsection F of this section the value of the 
viatical settlement contracts within any six-month period may be aggregated and the defendant 
charged accordingly in applying the provisions of this section. When two or more offenses are 
committed by the same person in two or more counties, the accused may be prosecuted in any 
county in which one of the offenses was committed for all of the offenses aggregated under this 
section. The applicable statute of limitations provision under Section 93 of Title 12 of the 
Oklahoma Statutes shall not begin to run until the insurance company or law enforcement agency 
is aware of the fraud, but in no event may the prosecution be commenced later than seven (7) 
years after the act has occurred. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.14 
 
Section 4055.15 - Violation of act - Deceptive trade practice 
A violation of the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008, including the commission of a fraudulent 
viatical settlement act, shall be considered a deceptive trade practice under 
Sections 1201 through 1219 of Title 36 of the Oklahoma Statutes subject to the penalties 
contained in those sections. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.15 
Section 4055.16 - Authority of Commissioner 
The Insurance Commissioner shall have the authority to: 
1. Promulgate regulations implementing the Viatical Settlements Act of 2008;2. Establish 
standards for evaluating reasonableness of payments under viatical settlement contracts for 
persons who are terminally or chronically ill. This authority includes, but is not limited to, 
regulation of discount rates used to determine the amount paid in exchange for assignment, 
transfer, sale, devise or bequest of a benefit under a life insurance policy insuring the life of a 
person that is chronically or terminally ill;3. Establish appropriate licensing requirements, fees 
and standards for continued licensure for viatical settlement providers and brokers;4. Require a 
bond or other mechanism for financial accountability for viatical settlement providers and 
brokers; and5. Adopt rules governing the relationship and responsibilities of both insurers and 
viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement brokers during the viatication of a life 
insurance policy or certificate. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.16 

Section 4055.17 - Compliance with actA. A viatical or life settlement provider lawfully 
transacting business in this state prior to the effective date of the Viatical Settlements Act of 
2008 may continue to do so pending approval or disapproval of that person's application for a 
license if the application is filed with the Commissioner not later than sixty (60) calendar days 
after publication of the application form and instructions for licensure of providers. If the 
publication of the application form and instructions is prior to the effective date of this act, then 
the application shall be filed no later than sixty (60) calendar days after the effective date of the 
act. During the time that such an application is pending with the Commissioner, the applicant 
may use any form of viatical settlement contract that has been filed with the Commissioner 
pending approval thereof, provided that such form is otherwise in compliance with the provisions 
of this act. Any person transacting business in this state under this subsection shall comply with 
all other requirements of this act.B. A person who has lawfully negotiated viatical or life 
settlement contracts between any owner residing in this state and one or more providers for at 
least one year immediately prior to the effective date of this act may continue to do so pending 
approval or disapproval of that person's application for a license if the application is filed with 
the Commissioner not later than sixty (60) calendar days after publication of the application form 
and instructions for licensure of brokers. If the publication of the application form and 
instructions is prior to the effective date of this act, then the application shall be filed no later 
than sixty (60) calendar days after the effective date of the act. Any person transacting business 
in this state under this subsection shall comply with all other requirements of this act. 
Okla. Stat. tit. 36, § 4055.17 
 
