State of Virginia: Chapter 60 - Viatical 
Settlements Act 
Section 38.2-6000 - Definitions 
As used in this chapter: 
"Advertising" means any written, electronic, or printed communication or any communication by 
means of recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio, television, the Internet, or similar 
communications media, including film strips, motion pictures, and videos published, 
disseminated, circulated or placed before the public, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of 
creating an interest in or inducing a person to sell a life insurance policy pursuant to a viatical 
settlement contract. 
"Business of viatical settlements" means an activity involved in, but not limited to, the offering, 
solicitation, negotiation, procurement, effectuation, purchasing, investing, financing, monitoring, 
tracking, underwriting, selling, transferring, assigning, pledging, or hypothecating in any other 
manner, of viatical settlement contracts or purchase agreements. 
"Chronically ill" means (i) being unable to perform at least two activities of daily living, which 
shall include eating, toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing or continence, (ii) requiring 
substantial supervision by another person to protect the individual from threats to health and 
safety due to severe cognitive impairment, or (iii) having a level of disability similar to that 
described in clause (i) as determined by the federal Secretary of Health and Human Resources. 
"Financing entity" means an underwriter, placement agent, lender, purchaser of securities, 
purchaser of a policy or certificate from a viatical settlement provider, credit enhancer, or any 
entity that has a direct ownership in a policy or certificate that is the subject of a viatical 
settlement contract, but whose principal activity related to the transaction is providing funds to 
effect the viatical settlement or purchase of one or more viaticated policies and who has an 
agreement in writing with one or more licensed viatical settlement providers to finance the 
acquisition of viatical settlement contracts. Financing entity does not include a non-accredited 
investor or viatical settlement purchaser. 
"Fraudulent viatical settlement act" includes: 
1. Acts or omissions committed by any person who, knowingly or with intent to defraud, for the 
purpose of depriving another of property or for pecuniary gain, commits or permits its employees 
or its agents to engage in acts including:a. Presenting, causing to be presented or preparing with 
knowledge or belief that it will be presented to or by a viatical settlement provider, viatical 
settlement broker, viatical settlement purchaser, financing entity, insurer, insurance producer, or 
any other person, false material information, or concealing material information, as part of, in 
support of, or concerning a fact material to one or more of the following: (i) an application for 
the issuance of a viatical settlement contract or insurance policy;(ii) the underwriting of a viatical 
settlement contract or insurance policy;(iii) a claim for payment or benefit pursuant to a viatical 
settlement contract or insurance policy;(iv) premiums paid on an insurance policy; (v) payments 

and changes in ownership or beneficiary made in accordance with the terms of a viatical 
settlement contract, or insurance policy;(vi) the reinstatement or conversion of an insurance 
policy;(vii) in the solicitation, offer, effectuation or sale of a viatical settlement contract or 
insurance policy;(viii) the issuance of written evidence of a viatical settlement contract or 
insurance policy; or(ix) a financing transaction;b. Employing any device, scheme, or artifice to 
defraud related to viaticated policies;2. In the furtherance of a fraud or to prevent the detection of 
a fraud any person commits or permits its employees or its agents to: (i) remove, conceal, alter, 
destroy, or sequester from the Commission the assets or records of a licensee or other person 
engaged in the business of viatical settlements;(ii) misrepresent or conceal the financial condition 
of a licensee, financing entity, insurer, or other person;(iii) transact the business of viatical 
settlements in violation of laws requiring a license, certificate of authority, or other legal 
authority for the transaction of the business of viatical settlements; or(iv) file with the 
Commission or the chief insurance regulatory official of another jurisdiction a document 
containing false information or otherwise conceals information about a material fact from the 
Commission;3. Embezzlement, theft, misappropriation or conversion of moneys, funds, 
premiums, credits, or other property of a viatical settlement provider, insurer, insured, viator, 
insurance policyowner, or any other person engaged in the business of viatical settlements or 
insurance;4. Recklessly entering into, brokering, or otherwise dealing in a viatical settlement 
contract, the subject of which is a life insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false 
information concerning any fact material to the policy or by concealing, for the purpose of 
misleading another, information concerning any fact material to the policy, where the viator or 
the viator's agent intended to defraud the policy's issuer. "Recklessly" means engaging in the 
conduct in conscious and clearly unjustifiable disregard of a substantial likelihood of the 
existence of the relevant facts or risks, such disregard involving a gross deviation from 
acceptable standards of conduct; or5. Attempting to commit, assisting, aiding or abetting in the 
commission of, or conspiracy to commit the acts or omissions specified in this subsection.  
"Licensee under this chapter" means a person licensed by the Commission as a viatical 
settlement provider or viatical settlement broker. 
"NAIC" means National Association of Insurance Commissioners. 
"Policy" means an individual or group policy, group certificate, contract or arrangement of life 
insurance affecting the rights of a resident of this Commonwealth or bearing a reasonable 
relation to this Commonwealth, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this 
Commonwealth. 
"Related provider trust" means a titling trust or other trust established by a licensed viatical 
settlement provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose of holding the ownership or 
beneficial interest in purchased policies in connection with a financing transaction. The trust 
shall have a written agreement with the licensed viatical settlement provider under which the 
licensed viatical settlement provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and 
regulatory requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files related to 
viatical settlement transactions available to the Commission as if those records and files were 
maintained directly by the licensed viatical settlement provider. 

"Special purpose entity" means a corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability company, or 
other similar entity formed solely to provide either directly or indirectly access to institutional 
capital markets for a financing entity or licensed viatical settlement provider. 
"Terminally ill" means having an illness or sickness that can reasonably be expected to result in 
death in 24 months or less. 
"Viatical settlement broker" means a person that on behalf of another and for a fee, commission 
or other valuable consideration introduces viators to viatical settlement providers, or offers or 
attempts to negotiate viatical settlement contracts between a viator and one or more viatical 
settlement providers. A viatical settlement broker may act as agent for a viatical settlement 
provider or on behalf of the viator, provided that a viatical settlement broker shall not be deemed 
to act exclusively for the viator unless, pursuant to written agreement between the parties, the 
broker agrees (i) to disclose fully all interests in the viatical settlement contract and relationships 
with the viatical settlement provider, including its affiliates and appointed or contracted agents, 
and (ii) that compensation for services as a viatical settlement broker shall be paid directly and 
only by the viator. The term does not include an attorney, certified public accountant, or a 
financial planner accredited by a nationally recognized accreditation agency, who is retained to 
represent the viator and whose compensation is not paid directly or indirectly by the viatical 
settlement provider or viatical settlement purchaser. 
"Viatical settlement contract" means a written agreement establishing the terms under which 
compensation or anything of value will be paid, which compensation or value is less than the 
expected death benefit of the insurance policy or certificate, in return for the viator's assignment, 
transfer, sale, devise or bequest of the death benefit or ownership of any portion of the insurance 
policy or certificate of insurance. A viatical settlement contract also includes a contract for a loan 
or other financing transaction with a viator secured primarily by an individual or group life 
insurance policy, other than a loan by a life insurance company pursuant to the terms of the life 
insurance contract, or a loan secured by the cash value of a policy. A viatical settlement contract 
includes an agreement with a viator to transfer ownership or change the beneficiary designation 
at a later date regardless of the date that compensation is paid to the viator. "Viatical settlement 
contracts" do not include accelerated benefits provisions contained in life insurance policies, 
whether issued with the original policy or as a rider, according to the regulations promulgated by 
the Commission. 
"Viatical settlement provider" means a person, other than a viator, that enters into or effectuates a 
viatical settlement contract. Viatical settlement provider does not include: 
(i) a bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union, or other licensed lending 
institution that takes an assignment of a life insurance policy as collateral for a loan;(ii) the issuer 
of a life insurance policy providing accelerated benefits under § 38.2-3115.1 and pursuant to the 
contract;(iii) an authorized or eligible insurer that provides stop loss coverage to a viatical 
settlement provider, viatical settlement purchaser, financing entity, special purpose entity or 
related provider trust;(iv) a natural person who enters into or effectuates no more than one 
agreement in a calendar year for the transfer of life insurance policies for any value less than the 
expected death benefit;(v) a financing entity;(vi) a special purpose entity;(vii) a related provider 

trust;(viii) a viatical settlement purchaser; or(ix) an accredited investor or qualified institutional 
buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 or Rule 144A of the Federal Securities 
Act of 1933, as amended, and who purchases a viaticated policy from a viatical settlement 
provider and does not communicate with the viator or insured who is a resident of this 
Commonwealth except through a licensee under this chapter. 
"Viatical settlement purchaser" means a person who gives a sum of money as consideration for a 
life insurance policy or an interest in the death benefits of a life insurance policy, or a person 
who owns or acquires or is entitled to a beneficial interest in a trust that owns a viatical 
settlement contract or is the beneficiary of a life insurance policy that has been or will be the 
subject of a viatical settlement contract, for the purpose of deriving an economic benefit. Viatical 
settlement purchaser does not include (i) a licensee under this chapter; (ii) an accredited investor 
or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 or Rule 144A 
of the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended; (iii) a financing entity; (iv) a special purpose 
entity; or (v) a related provider trust. 
"Viaticated policy" means a life insurance policy or certificate that has been acquired by a 
viatical settlement provider pursuant to a viatical settlement contract. 
"Viator" means the owner of a life insurance policy or a certificate holder under a group policy 
who enters or seeks to enter into a viatical settlement contract. For the purposes of this chapter 
and the application of Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of Chapter 18 of this title, a viator shall 
not be limited to an owner of a life insurance policy or a certificate holder under a group policy 
insuring the life of an individual with a terminal or chronic illness except where specifically 
addressed. Viator does not include (i) a licensee under this chapter; (ii) an accredited investor or 
qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 or Rule 144A of 
the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended; (iii) a financing entity; (iv) a special purpose 
entity; or (v) a related provider trust. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6000 
Section 38.2-6001 - Viatical settlement brokers 
No person shall act as a viatical settlement broker with a resident of this Commonwealth without 
first obtaining a license from the Commission in accordance with Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et 
seq.) of Chapter 18 of this title. If there is more than one viator on a single policy, and the viators 
are residents of different states, the viatical settlement broker shall be required to hold a license 
in the state in which the viator having the largest percentage resides or, if the viators hold equal 
ownership, the viatical settlement broker shall be required to hold a license in the state of 
residence of one viator agreed upon in writing by all the viators. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6001 
Section 38.2-6002 - Viatical settlement providers, license requirementsA. No person shall act as 
a viatical settlement provider with a resident of this Commonwealth without first obtaining a 
license from the Commission. 1. A person seeking to be licensed as a viatical settlement provider 
in this Commonwealth shall apply for such license in a form acceptable to the Commission and 
shall pay to the Commission a nonrefundable application fee in an amount prescribed by the 

Commission. On and after July 1, 2003, such fee shall be not less than $300 and not more than 
$1,500. The application fee required by this subdivision shall be collected by the Commission, 
paid directly into the state treasury, and credited to the "Bureau of Insurance Special Fund - State 
Corporation Commission" for the maintenance of the Bureau of Insurance as provided in 
subsection B of § 38.2-400.2. A license issued anytime prior to July 1, 2004, shall expire on June 
30, 2004, unless renewed as set forth herein.3. On or before March 1 of each year commencing 
March 1, 2004, a licensed viatical settlement provider shall remit a renewal application form and 
nonrefundable renewal fee in the form and amount prescribed by the Commission. Such fee shall 
be not less than $300 and not more than $1,500. The renewal fee required by this subdivision 
shall be collected by the Commission and paid directly into the state treasury and credited to the 
"Bureau of Insurance Special Fund - State Corporation Commission" for the maintenance of the 
Bureau of Insurance as provided in subsection B of § 38.2-400.4. A viatical settlement provider's 
license expiring on June 30 may be renewed on July 1 for a one-year period ending on June 30 of 
the following year if the required renewal application and a nonrefundable renewal fee have been 
received and the license is not terminated, suspended, or revoked at the time of renewal. The 
renewal fee required by this subdivision shall be collected by the Commission and paid directly 
into the state treasury and credited to the "Bureau of Insurance Special Fund - State Corporation 
Commission" for the maintenance of the Bureau of Insurance as provided in subsection B of 
§ 38.2-400.B. The applicant shall provide information on forms required by the Commission. 
The Commission shall have authority, at any time, to require the applicant to disclose fully the 
identity of all stockholders, partners, officers, members, and employees, and the Commission 
may, in the exercise of the Commission's discretion, refuse to issue a license in the name of a 
legal entity if not satisfied that any officer, employee, stockholder, partner, or member thereof 
who may materially influence the applicant's conduct meets the standards of this chapter.C. A 
license issued to a legal entity authorizes all partners, officers, members, and designated 
employees to act as the viatical settlement provider under the license, and all those persons shall 
be named in the application and any application supplements.D. Upon the filing of an application 
and the payment of the nonrefundable application fee, the Commission shall make such 
investigation of each applicant as the Commission may determine to be appropriate and issue a 
license if it finds that the applicant: (i) has provided a detailed plan of operation;(ii) is competent 
and trustworthy;(iii) indicates its intention to act in good faith within the confines of the 
license;(iv) has a good business reputation; (v) if an individual, has had experience, training or 
education that qualifies him for licensure;(vi) if a resident partnership, limited liability company, 
or corporation, has recorded the existence of the partnership, limited liability company, or 
corporation pursuant to law; (vii) if a corporation, has specific authority to act as a viatical 
settlement provider in its charter; (viii) if a nonresident partnership, limited liability company, or 
corporation, has furnished proof of its authority to transact business in Virginia; and(ix) has 
provided an anti-fraud plan that meets the requirements of subdivision E 3 b of § 38.2-6011.E. If 
the applicant for a viatical settlement provider license is a nonresident, such applicant, as a 
condition precedent to receiving or holding a license, shall designate a resident of this 
Commonwealth as the person upon whom any process, notices, or order required or permitted by 
law to be served upon such nonresident viatical settlement provider may be served; and such 
licensee shall promptly notify the clerk of the Commission in writing of every change in its 
designated agent for service of process, and such change shall not become effective until 
acknowledged by the Commission. Whenever a nonresident viatical settlement provider 
transacting business in this Commonwealth fails to appoint or maintain a registered agent in this 

Commonwealth, or whenever its registered agent cannot with reasonable diligence be found at 
the registered office, the clerk of the Commission shall be an agent of the nonresident upon 
whom service may be made in accordance with § 12.1-19.1.F. A licensed insurer shall be 
prohibited from transacting the business of a viatical settlement provider.G. The Commission 
may suspend, revoke, refuse to issue, or refuse to renew the license of a viatical settlement 
provider if the Commission finds that the applicant or licensee has (i) made any material 
misrepresentation in the application; (ii) been guilty of fraudulent or dishonest practices; (iii) 
been subject to a final administrative action or has otherwise been shown to be untrustworthy or 
incompetent to act as a viatical settlement provider; (iv) demonstrated a pattern of unreasonable 
payments to viators; (v) been convicted of a felony or any misdemeanor involving fraud or moral 
turpitude; (vi) entered into any viatical settlement contract that has not been approved pursuant to 
this chapter; (vii) failed to honor contractual obligations set out in a viatical settlement contract; 
(viii) demonstrated or represented that it no longer meets the requirements for initial licensure; 
(ix) has assigned, transferred, or pledged a viaticated policy to a person other than a viatical 
settlement provider licensed in this Commonwealth, viatical settlement purchaser, an accredited 
investor, or qualified institutional buyer as defined respectively in Regulation D, Rule 501 or 
Rule 144A of the Federal Securities Act of 1933, as amended, financing entity, special purpose 
entity, or related provider trust; (x) violated any provisions of this chapter or other applicable 
provisions of this title or has in its employ or organization any officer, partner, member, or key 
management personnel who has violated any provision of this chapter or other applicable 
provisions of this title; or (xi) has renewed or requested renewal of its license before 
implementing the anti-fraud initiatives required by subsection E of § 38.2-6011.H. No applicant 
to whom a license is refused after a hearing, nor any licensee whose license is revoked, shall 
apply again for a license under this chapter until after the expiration of a period of five years 
from the date of the Commission's order, or such other period of time as the Commission 
prescribes in its order.I. A viatical settlement provider shall be bonded as required by the 
Commission. Rules issued pursuant to § 38.2-6014 may identify other mechanisms for financial 
accountability. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6002 
Section 38.2-6003 - Approval of viatical settlement contracts and disclosure statementsA. A 
person shall not use a viatical settlement contract or provide to a viator a disclosure statement 
form in this Commonwealth unless filed with and approved by the Commission in accordance 
with procedures set forth in § 38.2-316. In the absence of more specific regulation or rules 
promulgated by the Commission for the business of viatical settlements, standards and 
requirements of general application set forth in § 38.2-316 and rules promulgated thereunder 
shall be deemed applicable to viatical settlement contracts and disclosure statement forms, 
required by this chapter.B. At the Commission's discretion, the Commission may require the 
submission of advertising material used or intended for use in this Commonwealth. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6003 
Section 38.2-6004 - Reporting requirementsA. A viatical settlement provider shall file with the 
Commission on or before March 1 of each year the certification required by subsection E of 
§ 38.2-6011 and an annual report containing such information as the Commission may prescribe 
by rule or regulation; however, such information shall be limited to only those transactions 
where the viator is a resident of this Commonwealth.B. A viatical settlement provider shall 

report in writing to the Commission the following: 1. New or revised information about its 
officers, stockholders owning 10 percent or greater interest in the licensee or an affiliate of the 
licensee, partners, directors, members, or designated employees within 30 calendar days of the 
change;2. Any change in business or residence address or name within 30 calendar days of the 
change.C. A licensed viatical settlement provider convicted of a felony shall report within 30 
calendar days to the Commission the facts and circumstances regarding the criminal conviction. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6004 
Section 38.2-6005 - Privacy 
Except as otherwise allowed or required by law, a viatical settlement provider, viatical settlement 
broker, insurance company, insurance producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, 
or any other person with actual knowledge of an insured's identity, shall not disclose that identity 
as an insured, or the insured's financial or medical information to any other person unless the 
disclosure: 
1. Is necessary to effect a viatical settlement between the viator and a viatical settlement provider 
and the viator and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;2. Is provided in 
response to an investigation or examination by the Commission or another governmental agency 
or officer or pursuant to the requirements of subsection C of § 38.2-6011;3. Is a term of or 
condition to the transfer of a policy by one viatical settlement provider to another viatical 
settlement provider;4. Is necessary to permit a financing entity, related provider trust, or special 
purpose entity to finance the purchase of policies by a viatical settlement provider and the viator 
and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;5. Is necessary to allow the 
viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker or their authorized representatives to 
make contacts for the purpose of determining health status; or6. Is required to purchase stop loss 
coverage. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6005 
Section 38.2-6006 - Examinations; record retention; investigationsA. Viatical settlement 
providers, viatical settlement brokers, and persons seeking a license under this title to transact the 
business of viatical settlements in this Commonwealth shall be subject to examination by the 
Commission pursuant to Article 4 (§ 38.2-1317 et seq.) of Chapter 13 of this title. For purposes 
of completing such examination, the Commission may examine or investigate any person, or the 
business of any person, insofar as the examination or investigation is, in the sole discretion of the 
Commission, necessary or material to the examination of a licensee.B. A person required to be 
licensed by this chapter shall for five years retain copies of (i) all proposed, offered or executed 
contracts, purchase agreements, underwriting documents, policy forms, and applications from the 
date of the proposal, offer or execution of the contract or purchase agreement, whichever is later; 
(ii) all checks, drafts or other evidence and documentation related to the payment, transfer, 
deposit, or release of funds from the date of the transaction; and (iii) all other records and 
documents related to the requirements of this chapter or Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of 
Chapter 18 of this title. This section does not relieve a person of the obligation to produce these 
documents to the Commission after the retention period has expired if the person has retained the 
documents. Records required to be retained by this section must be legible and complete and 
may be retained in paper, photograph, microprocess, magnetic, mechanical, or electronic media, 
or by any process that accurately reproduces or forms a durable medium for the reproduction of a 

record.C. The Commission may investigate suspected fraudulent viatical settlement acts and 
persons engaged or alleged to be engaged in the business of viatical settlements. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6006 
Section 38.2-6007 - DisclosureA. Before asking a viator or insured to sign any document, a 
licensee under this chapter shall provide the respective viator or insured, or both, with a copy of 
the disclosure document described in this subsection. The viatical settlement provider or viatical 
settlement broker shall provide the viator with an additional copy of the disclosures, with the 
application, no later than the time the application for the viatical settlement contract is signed by 
all parties. The disclosures shall be provided in a separate document that is signed by the viator 
and the viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker, and shall provide the following 
information: 1. There are possible alternatives to viatical settlement contracts including any 
accelerated death benefits or policy loans offered under the viator's life insurance policy.2. Some 
or all of the proceeds of the viatical settlement may be taxable under federal income tax and state 
franchise and income taxes, and assistance should be sought from a professional tax 
advisor.3. Proceeds of the viatical settlement could be subject to the claims of 
creditors.4. Receipt of the proceeds of a viatical settlement may adversely affect the viator's 
eligibility for Medicaid or other government benefits or entitlements, and advice should be 
obtained from the appropriate government agencies.5. The viator has the right to rescind a 
viatical settlement contract for 15 calendar days after the receipt of the viatical settlement 
proceeds by the viator, as provided in subsection C of § 38.2-6008. If the insured dies during the 
rescission period, the settlement contract shall be deemed to have been rescinded, subject to 
repayment of all viatical settlement proceeds and any premiums, loans, and loan interest to the 
viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement purchaser.6. Funds will be sent to the viator 
within three business days after the viatical settlement provider has received the insurer's or 
group administrator's acknowledgment that ownership of the policy or interest in the certificate 
has been transferred and the beneficiary has been designated.7. Entering into a viatical settlement 
contract may cause other rights or benefits, including conversion rights and waiver of premium 
benefits that may exist under the policy or certificate, to be forfeited by the viator. Assistance 
should be sought from a financial adviser.8. Disclosure to a viator shall include distribution of a 
brochure describing the process of viatical settlements. The NAIC's form for the brochure shall 
be used unless one is developed by the Commission.9. The disclosure document shall contain the 
following language: "All medical, financial, or personal information solicited or obtained by a 
viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker about an insured, including the insured's 
identity or the identity of family members, a spouse, or a significant other may be disclosed as 
necessary to effect the viatical settlement between the viator and the viatical settlement provider. 
If you are asked to provide this information, you will be asked to consent to the disclosure. The 
information may be provided to someone who buys the policy or provides funds for the 
purchase. You may be asked to renew your permission to share information every two 
years."10. The insured may be contacted by either the viatical settlement provider or broker or its 
authorized representative for the purpose of determining the insured's health status. This contact 
is limited to once every three months if the insured has a life expectancy of more than one year, 
and no more than once per month if the insured has a life expectancy of one year or less.B. A 
viatical settlement provider shall provide the viator with at least the following disclosures no 
later than the date the viatical settlement contract is signed by all parties. The disclosures shall be 
conspicuously displayed in the viatical settlement contract or in a separate document signed by 

the viator and the viatical settlement provider or viatical settlement broker, and provide the 
following information:1. The affiliation, if any, between the viatical settlement provider and the 
issuer of the insurance policy to be viaticated;2. The name, address, and telephone number of the 
viatical settlement provider;3. The dollar amount of the current death benefit payable to the 
viatical settlement provider under the policy or certificate. If known, the viatical settlement 
provider shall also disclose the availability of any additional guaranteed insurance benefits, the 
dollar amount of any accidental death and dismemberment benefits under the policy or 
certificate, and the viatical settlement provider's interest in those benefits;4. State the name, 
business address, and telephone number of the independent third party escrow agent, and the fact 
that the viator or owner may inspect or receive copies of the relevant escrow or trust agreements 
or documents; and5. If an insurance policy to be viaticated has been issued as a joint policy or 
involves family riders or any coverage of a life other than the insured under the policy to be 
viaticated, the viator shall be informed of the possible loss of coverage on the other lives under 
the policy and shall be advised to consult with his insurance producer or the insurer issuing the 
policy for advice on the proposed viatical settlement.C. If the provider transfers ownership or 
changes the beneficiary of the insurance policy, the provider shall communicate the change in 
ownership or beneficiary to the insured within 20 days after the change. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6007 
Section 38.2-6008 - General rulesA. A viatical settlement provider entering into a viatical 
settlement contract shall: 1. First obtain: a. If the viator is the insured, a written statement from a 
licensed attending physician that the viator is of sound mind and under no constraint or undue 
influence to enter into a viatical settlement contract; andb. A document in which the insured 
consents to the release of his medical records to a viatical settlement provider, viatical settlement 
broker, and the insurance company that issued the life insurance policy covering the life of the 
insured. The consent for the release of medical records shall only be obtained for the insurance 
company if the life insurance policy covering the insured was issued within 48 months of the 
date of the viator's application for the viatical settlement contract.2. Within 20 days after a viator 
executes documents necessary to transfer any rights under an insurance policy or within 20 days 
of entering any agreement, option, promise or any other form of understanding, expressed or 
implied, to viaticate the policy, the viatical settlement provider shall give written notice to the 
insurer that issued that insurance policy that the policy has or will become a viaticated policy. 
The notice shall be accompanied by the documents required by subdivision 3.3. The viatical 
settlement provider shall deliver a copy of the medical release required under subdivision 1 b of 
this subsection, a copy of the viator's application for the viatical settlement contract, the notice 
required under subdivision 2, and a request for verification of coverage to the insurer that issued 
the life policy that is the subject of the viatical transaction. The verification form adopted by the 
NAIC shall be used unless standards for verification are developed by the Commission.4. The 
insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage submitted on an approved form by 
a viatical settlement provider not later than 30 calendar days after the date the request is 
received. The insurer shall complete and issue the verification of coverage to the viatical 
settlement provider or, in its response, the insurer shall indicate whether, based on the medical 
evidence and documents provided, the insurer intends to pursue an investigation regarding 
possible fraud or the validity of the insurance contract.5. Prior to or at the time of execution of 
the viatical settlement contract, the viatical settlement provider shall obtain a witnessed 
document in which the viator consents to the viatical settlement contract, represents that the 

viator has a full and complete understanding of the viatical settlement contract, that he has a full 
and complete understanding of the benefits of the life insurance policy, acknowledges that he is 
entering into the viatical settlement contract freely and voluntarily and, for persons who are 
chronically or terminally ill, acknowledges that the insured has a terminal or chronic illness and 
that the terminal or chronic illness or condition was diagnosed after the life insurance policy was 
issued.6. If a viatical settlement broker performs any of these activities required of the viatical 
settlement provider, the provider is deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of this 
section.B. All medical information solicited or obtained by any licensee shall be subject to the 
applicable provisions of state law relating to privacy or confidentiality of medical 
information.C. All viatical settlement contracts entered into in this Commonwealth shall provide 
the viator with an unconditional right to rescind the contract for at least 15 calendar days from 
the receipt of the viatical settlement proceeds. If the insured dies during the rescission period, the 
viatical settlement contract shall be deemed to have been rescinded, subject to repayment to the 
viatical settlement provider or purchaser of all viatical settlement proceeds, and any premiums, 
loans, and loan interest that have been paid by the viatical settlement provider or 
purchaser.D. The viatical settlement provider shall instruct the viator to send the executed 
documents required to effect the change in ownership, assignment or change in beneficiary 
directly to the independent escrow agent. Within three business days after the date the escrow 
agent receives the documents, or from the date the viatical settlement provider receives the 
documents, if the viator erroneously provides the documents directly to the provider, the 
provider shall pay or transfer the proceeds of the viatical settlement into an escrow or trust 
account maintained in a state or federally-chartered financial institution whose deposits are 
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Upon payment of the settlement proceeds 
into the escrow account, the escrow agent shall deliver the original change in ownership, 
assignment, or change in beneficiary forms to the viatical settlement provider or related provider 
trust. Upon the escrow agent's receipt of the acknowledgment of the properly completed transfer 
of ownership, assignment, or designation of beneficiary from the insurance company, the escrow 
agent shall pay the settlement proceeds to the viator.E. Failure to tender consideration to the 
viator for the viatical settlement contract within the time disclosed pursuant to subdivision A 6 of 
§ 38.2-6007 renders the viatical settlement contract voidable by the viator for lack of 
consideration until the time consideration is tendered to and accepted by the viator.F. Contacts 
with the insured for the purpose of determining the health status of the insured by the viatical 
settlement provider or viatical settlement broker after the viatical settlement has occurred shall 
only be made by the viatical settlement provider or broker licensed in this Commonwealth or its 
authorized representatives and shall be limited to once every three months for insureds with a life 
expectancy of more than one year, and to no more than once per month for insureds with a life 
expectancy of one year or less. The provider or broker shall explain the procedure for these 
contacts at the time the viatical settlement contract is entered into. The limitations set forth in 
this subsection shall not apply to any contacts with an insured for reasons other than determining 
the insured's health status. Viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement brokers shall be 
responsible for the actions of their authorized representatives. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6008 
Section 38.2-6009 - Prohibited practicesA. It is a violation of this chapter for any person to enter 
into a viatical settlement contract within a two-year period commencing with the date of issuance 
of the insurance policy or certificate unless the viator certifies to the viatical settlement provider 

that one or more of the following conditions have been met within the two-year period: 1. The 
policy was issued upon the viator's exercise of conversion rights arising out of a group or 
individual policy, provided the total of the time covered under the conversion policy plus the 
time covered under the prior policy is at least 24 months. The time covered under a group policy 
shall be calculated without regard to any change in insurance carriers, provided the coverage has 
been continuous and under the same group sponsorship;2. The viator submits independent 
evidence to the viatical settlement provider that one or more of the following conditions have 
been met within the two-year period:a. The insured is terminally or chronically ill, orb. The 
viator or insured disposes of his ownership interests in a closely held corporation pursuant to 
terms of a buyout or other similar agreement in effect at the time the insurance policy was 
initially issued.B. Copies of the certifications and independent evidence required by this 
subsection and documents required by subsection A of § 38.2-6008 shall be submitted to the 
insurer when the viatical settlement provider submits a request to the insurer for verification of 
coverage. The copies shall be accompanied by a letter of attestation from the viatical settlement 
provider that the copies are true and correct copies of the documents received by the viatical 
settlement provider. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6009 
Section 38.2-6010 - Advertising for viatical settlementsA. This section shall apply to any 
advertising of viatical settlement contracts, or related products or services intended for 
dissemination in this Commonwealth, including Internet advertising viewed by persons located 
in this Commonwealth. Where disclosure requirements are established pursuant to federal 
regulation, this section shall be interpreted so as to minimize or eliminate conflict with federal 
regulation wherever possible.B. Each licensee under this chapter shall establish and at all times 
maintain a system of control over the content, form and method of dissemination of all 
advertisements of its contracts, products, and services. All advertisements, regardless of by 
whom written, created, designed, or presented, shall be the responsibility of the licensee, as well 
as the individual who created or presented the advertisement. A system of control shall include 
regular routine notification, at least once a year, to agents and others authorized by the licensee 
who disseminates advertisements of the requirements and procedures for approval prior to the 
use of any advertisements not furnished by the licensee.C. Advertisements shall be truthful and 
not misleading in fact or by implication. The form and content of an advertisement of a viatical 
settlement contract shall be sufficiently complete and clear so as to avoid deception. It shall not 
have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive. Whether an advertisement has the capacity 
or tendency to mislead or deceive shall be determined by the Commission from the overall 
impression that the advertisement may be reasonably expected to create upon a person of average 
education or intelligence within the segment of the public to which it is directed.D. The 
information required to be disclosed under this section shall not be minimized, rendered obscure, 
or presented in an ambiguous fashion or intermingled with the text of the advertisement so as to 
be confusing or misleading.1. An advertisement shall not omit material information or use 
words, phrases, statements, references, or illustrations if the omission or use has the capacity, 
tendency, or effect of misleading or deceiving viators, as to the nature or extent of any benefit, 
loss covered, premium payable, or state or federal tax consequence. The fact that the viatical 
settlement contract offered is made available for inspection prior to consummation of the sale, or 
an offer is made to refund the payment if the viator is not satisfied or that the viatical settlement 
contract includes a "free look" period that satisfies or exceeds legal requirements, does not 

remedy misleading statements.2. An advertisement shall not use the name or title of a life 
insurance company or a life insurance policy unless the advertisement has been approved by the 
insurer.3. An advertisement shall not state or imply that interest charged on an accelerated death 
benefit or a policy loan is unfair, inequitable, or in any manner an incorrect or improper 
practice.4. The words "free," "no cost," "without cost," "no additional cost," "at no extra cost," or 
words of similar import shall not be used with respect to any benefit or service unless true. An 
advertisement may specify the charge for a benefit or a service or may state that a charge is 
included in the payment or use other appropriate language.5. Testimonials, appraisals, or analysis 
used in advertisements must be genuine; represent the current opinion of the author; be 
applicable to the viatical settlement contract, product, or service advertised, if any; and be 
accurately reproduced with sufficient completeness to avoid misleading or deceiving prospective 
viators as to the nature or scope of the testimonials, appraisal, analysis, or endorsement. In using 
testimonials, appraisals, or analysis, the viatical settlement licensee makes as its own all the 
statements contained therein, and the statements are subject to all the provisions of this 
section. a. If the individual making a testimonial, appraisal, analysis, or an endorsement has a 
financial interest in the viatical settlement provider, viatical settlement broker, or related entity as 
a stockholder, director, officer, employee, or otherwise, or receives any benefit directly or 
indirectly other than required union scale wages, that fact shall be prominently disclosed in the 
advertisement.b. An advertisement shall not state or imply that a viatical settlement contract 
benefit or service has been approved or endorsed by a group of individuals, society, association, 
or other organization unless that is the fact and unless any relationship between an organization 
and the viatical settlement licensee is disclosed. If the entity making the endorsement or 
testimonial is owned, controlled, or managed by the viatical settlement licensee, or receives any 
payment or other consideration from the viatical settlement licensee for making an endorsement 
or testimonial, that fact shall be disclosed in the advertisement.c. When an endorsement refers to 
benefits received under a viatical settlement contract all pertinent information shall be retained 
for a period of five years after its use.E. An advertisement shall not contain statistical 
information unless it accurately reflects recent and relevant facts. The source of all statistics used 
in an advertisement shall be identified.F. An advertisement shall not disparage insurers, viatical 
settlement providers, viatical settlement brokers, viatical settlement investment agents, insurance 
producers, policies, services, or methods of marketing.G. The name of the viatical settlement 
licensee shall be clearly identified in all advertisements about the licensee or its viatical 
settlement contracts, products, or services, and if any specific viatical settlement contract is 
advertised, the viatical settlement contract shall be identified either by form number or some 
other appropriate description. If an application is part of the advertisement, the name of the 
viatical settlement provider shall be shown on the application.H. An advertisement shall not use 
a trade name, group designation, name of the parent company of a viatical settlement licensee, 
name of a particular division of the viatical settlement licensee, service mark, slogan, symbol, or 
other device or reference without disclosing the name of the viatical settlement licensee, if the 
advertisement would have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity 
of the viatical settlement licensee, or to create the impression that a company other than the 
viatical settlement licensee would have any responsibility for the financial obligation under a 
viatical settlement contract.I. An advertisement shall not use any combination of words, 
symbols, or physical materials that by their content, phraseology, shape, color, or other 
characteristics are so similar to a combination of words, symbols, or physical materials used by a 
government program or agency or otherwise appear to be of such a nature that they tend to 

mislead prospective viators into believing that the solicitation is in some manner connected with 
a government program or agency.J. An advertisement may state that a viatical settlement 
licensee is licensed in the state where the advertisement appears, provided it does not exaggerate 
that fact or suggest or imply that a competing viatical settlement licensee may not be so licensed. 
The advertisement may ask the audience to consult the licensee's website or contact the Bureau 
of Insurance to find out if this Commonwealth requires licensing and, if so, whether the viatical 
settlement provider or viatical settlement broker is licensed.K. An advertisement shall not create 
the impression that the viatical settlement provider, its financial condition or status, the payment 
of its claims or the merits, desirability, or advisability of its viatical settlement contracts are 
recommended or endorsed by any government entity.L. The name of the actual licensee shall be 
stated in all of its advertisements. An advertisement shall not use a trade name, any group 
designation, name of any affiliate, or controlling entity of the licensee, service mark, slogan, 
symbol, or other device in a manner that would have the capacity or tendency to mislead or 
deceive as to the true identity of the actual licensee or create the false impression that an affiliate 
or controlling entity would have any responsibility for the financial obligation of the 
licensee.M. An advertisement shall not directly or indirectly create the impression that any 
division or agency of the state or of the U.S. government endorses, approves, or favors: 1. Any 
viatical settlement licensee or its business practices or methods of operation;2. The merits, 
desirability, or advisability of any viatical settlement contract;3. Any viatical settlement contract; 
or4. Any life insurance policy or life insurance company.N. If the advertiser emphasizes the 
speed with which the viatication will occur, the advertising must disclose the average time frame 
from completed application to the date of offer and from acceptance of the offer to receipt of the 
funds by the viator.O. If the advertising emphasizes the dollar amounts available to viators, the 
advertising shall disclose the average purchase price as a percent of face value obtained by 
viators contracting with the licensee during the past six months. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6010 
Section 38.2-6011 - Fraud prevention and controlA. A person shall not commit a fraudulent 
viatical settlement act. A person shall not knowingly or intentionally interfere with the 
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter or Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of Chapter 18 
of this title or investigations of suspected or actual violations of this chapter or Article 6.1 
(§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of Chapter 18 of this title. A person in the business of viatical settlements 
shall not knowingly or intentionally permit any person convicted of a felony involving 
dishonesty or breach of trust to participate in the business of viatical settlements.B. Viatical 
settlement contracts and applications for viatical settlements, regardless of the form of 
transmission, shall contain the following statement or a substantially similar statement: "Any 
person who knowingly presents false information in an application for insurance or viatical 
settlement contract may be guilty of a crime and subject to prosecution." The lack of the required 
statement does not constitute a defense in any prosecution for a fraudulent viatical settlement 
act.C. Any person engaged in the business of viatical settlements having knowledge or a 
reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical settlement act is being, will be, or has been committed 
shall provide to the Commission the information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the 
Commission. Any other person having knowledge or a reasonable belief that a fraudulent viatical 
settlement act is being, will be, or has been committed may provide to the Commission the 
information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the Commission.D. This chapter shall 
not: 1. Preempt the authority or relieve the duty of other law enforcement or regulatory agencies 

to investigate, examine, and prosecute suspected violations of law;2. Prevent or prohibit a person 
from disclosing voluntarily information concerning viatical settlement fraud to a law 
enforcement or regulatory agency other than the insurance department; or3. Limit the powers 
granted elsewhere by the laws of this Commonwealth to the Commission or an insurance fraud 
unit to investigate and examine possible violations of law and to take appropriate action against 
wrongdoers.E.1. A viatical settlement provider shall within 60 days of licensure and annually 
thereafter by March 1 of each year certify to the Commission implementation of anti-fraud 
initiatives reasonably calculated to detect, prosecute, and prevent fraudulent viatical settlement 
acts.2. A viatical settlement broker shall within 60 days of licensure affirm to the Commission 
implementation of fraud initiatives reasonably calculated to detect, prosecute, and prevent 
fraudulent viatical settlement acts. Upon renewal of such license, a viatical settlement broker 
shall affirm to the Commission that such fraud initiatives remain in place. A viatical settlement 
broker shall make its anti-fraud plan available to the Commission upon request.3. Anti-fraud 
initiatives shall include:a. Fraud investigators, who may be viatical settlement providers or 
viatical settlement broker employees or independent contractors; andb. An anti-fraud plan that 
includes all of the following:(1) A description of the procedures for detecting and investigating 
possible fraudulent viatical settlement acts and procedures for resolving material inconsistencies 
between medical records and insurance applications;(2) A description of the procedures for 
reporting possible fraudulent viatical settlement acts to the Commission;(3) A description of the 
plan for anti-fraud education and training of underwriters and other personnel; and(4) A 
description or chart outlining the organizational arrangement of the anti-fraud personnel who are 
responsible for the investigation and reporting of possible fraudulent viatical settlement acts and 
investigating unresolved material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance 
applications.F. Anti-fraud plans submitted to or obtained by the Commission and in the control 
or possession of the Commission shall be privileged and confidential, shall not be subject to 
inspection or review by the general public, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be 
subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil or criminal action. However, 
the Commission is authorized to use the anti-fraud plans in the furtherance of any regulatory or 
legal action brought as a part of the Commission's duties. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6011 
Section 38.2-6012 - Civil remediesA. Any person damaged by the acts of a person in violation of 
this chapter may bring a civil action against the person committing the violation in a court of 
competent jurisdiction.B. The Commission shall have no jurisdiction to adjudicate controversies 
between licensees, or between a licensee under this chapter and a viator or an insured.C. If there 
is more than one viator on a single policy and the viators are residents of different states, 
contractual disputes arising from the viatical settlement shall be governed by the law of the state 
in which the viator having the largest percentage ownership resides or, if the viators hold equal 
ownership, the state of residence of one viator agreed upon in writing by all viators, provided 
that the application of another state's laws shall not impair or limit the ability of the Commission 
to apply and enforce the provisions of this chapter or Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of 
Chapter 18 of this title in its regulation of transactions with a resident of this Commonwealth. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6012 
Section 38.2-6013 - Unfair trade practices 

A violation of this chapter shall be considered an unfair trade practice under Chapter 5 (§ 38.2-
500et seq.) of this title and subject to the penalties contained in that chapter. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6013 
Section 38.2-6014 - Commission authority 
Pursuant to the authority granted by § 38.2-223, the Commission may promulgate such rules and 
regulations as it may deem necessary to implement this chapter, including, but not limited to: 
1. Establishing standards for evaluating reasonableness of payments under viatical settlement 
contracts for insureds who are terminally or chronically ill. This authority includes, but is not 
limited to, regulation of discount rates used to determine the amount paid in exchange for 
assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of a benefit under a life insurance policy. Viatical 
settlement providers, where the insured is not terminally ill or chronically ill, shall pay an 
amount greater than the cash surrender value or accelerated death benefit then 
available;2. Establish appropriate licensing requirements, fees, and standards for continued 
licensure for viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement brokers;3. Requiring and setting 
the amount of any bond or other mechanism for financial accountability for viatical settlement 
providers and viatical settlement brokers; and4. Adopting rules governing the relationship and 
responsibilities of both insurers and viatical settlement providers and viatical settlement brokers 
during the viatication of a life insurance policy or certificate. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6014 
Section 38.2-6015 - Immunity from liabilityA. No cause of action shall arise nor shall any 
liability be imposed against the Commission, the Commissioner of Insurance, or any of the 
Commission's employees or agents, for any statements made or conduct performed in good faith 
while carrying out the provisions of this chapter or Article 6.1 (§ 38.2-1865.1 et seq.) of Chapter 
18 of this title.B. No cause of action shall arise, nor shall any liability be imposed against any 
person for the act of communicating or delivering information or data to the Commission, if the 
act of communication or delivery was performed in good faith and without fraudulent intent or 
the intent to deceive.C. No civil liability shall be imposed on and no cause of action shall arise 
from a person's furnishing information concerning suspected, anticipated, or completed 
fraudulent viatical settlement acts or suspected or completed fraudulent insurance acts, if the 
information is provided to or received from:1. The Commission, the Commissioner of Insurance, 
or any of the Commission's employees or agents;2. Federal, state, or local law enforcement or 
regulatory officials or their employees, agents or representatives;3. A person involved in the 
prevention and detection of fraudulent viatical settlement acts or that person's agents, employees, 
or representatives;4. The NAIC, National Association of Securities Dealers, the North American 
Securities Administrators Association, or their employees, agents or representatives, or other 
regulatory body overseeing life insurance, viatical settlements, securities, or investment 
fraud;5. The life insurer that issued the life insurance policy covering the life of the insured; 
or6. Any licensee under this chapter, provided the information furnished shall not be utilized as 
grounds to excuse the direct actions of such licensee.D. Immunity provided by subsection C shall 
not apply to statements made with actual malice. In an action brought against a person for filing 
a report or furnishing other information concerning a fraudulent viatical settlement act or a 
fraudulent insurance act, the party bringing the action shall plead specifically any allegation that 

subsection C does not apply because the person filing the report or furnishing the information did 
so with actual malice.E. This section does not abrogate or modify common law or statutory 
privileges or immunities enjoyed by a person described in subsections A or C.F. The documents 
and evidence provided pursuant to this section or obtained by the Commission in an investigation 
of suspected or actual fraudulent viatical settlement acts shall be privileged and confidential and 
shall not be a public record and shall not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a private civil or 
criminal action.G. Subsection F does not prohibit release by the Commission of documents and 
evidence obtained in an investigation of suspected or actual fraudulent viatical settlement 
acts: 1. In administrative or judicial proceedings to enforce laws administered by the 
Commission;2. To federal, state, or local law enforcement or regulatory agencies, to an 
organization established for the purpose of detecting and preventing fraudulent viatical 
settlement acts or to the NAIC; or3. At the discretion of the Commission, to a person in the 
business of viatical settlements that is aggrieved by a fraudulent viatical settlement 
act.H. Release of documents and evidence under subsection G does not abrogate or modify the 
privilege granted in subsection F. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6015 
Section 38.2-6016 - Applicability of securities laws 
Nothing in this chapter shall preempt or otherwise limit the provisions of the Virginia Securities 
Act (§ 13.1-501 et seq.), or any regulations, notices, bulletins or other interpretations issued by or 
through the Commission acting pursuant to the Virginia Securities Act. Compliance with the 
provisions of this chapter shall not constitute compliance with any applicable provision of the 
Virginia Securities Act and any amendments thereto or any regulations, notices, bulletins, or 
other interpretations issued by or through the Commission acting pursuant to the Virginia 
Securities Act. 
Va. Code § 38.2-6016 
 
