Wisconsin Life Settlement Statutes 
 
Section 632.69 - Life settlements(1) DEFINITIONS. In this section:(a) "Advertisement" means 
any written, electronic, or printed communication or any communication made by means of 
recorded telephone messages or transmitted on radio, television, the Internet, or similar 
communications media, including film strips, motion pictures, and videos, published, 
disseminated, circulated, or placed, directly or indirectly, before the public in this state for the 
purpose of creating an interest in or inducing a person to purchase or sell, assign, devise, 
bequeath, or transfer the death benefit or ownership of a policy or an interest in a policy pursuant 
to a life settlement contract.(b) "Broker" means a person who, on behalf of an owner and for a 
fee, commission, or other valuable consideration, offers or attempts to negotiate life settlement 
contracts between an owner and one or more providers, or one or more brokers. "Broker" does 
not include an attorney or certified public accountant who is retained to represent the owner and 
whose compensation is not paid directly or indirectly by the provider or purchaser.(c) "Business 
of life settlements" means an activity involved in the offering soliciting, negotiating, procuring, 
effectuating, purchasing, investing in, financing, monitoring, tracking, underwriting, selling, 
transferring, assigning, pledging, hypothicating, or in any other manner, acquiring an interest in a 
policy by means of a life settlement contract.(d) "Chronically ill" means any of the 
following:1. Being unable to perform at least 2 activities of daily living, including eating, 
toileting, transferring, bathing, dressing, or continence.2. Requiring substantial supervision to 
monitor the health and safety of the individual due to his or her severe cognitive 
impairment.3. Having a level of disability similar to that described in subd. 1., as defined by the 
U.S. department of health and human services.(e) "Financing entity" means a person whose 
principal activity related to a life settlement is providing funds to effect the life settlement 
contract or purchase of one or more policies and who has an agreement in writing with one or 
more providers to finance the acquisition of life settlement contracts, including an underwriter, 
placement agent, lender, purchaser of securities, purchaser of a policy from a life settlement 
provider, credit enhancer, or any entity that has a direct ownership in a policy that is the subject 
of a life settlement contract. "Financing entity" does not include an investor that is not an 
accredited investor, as defined in 17 CFR 230.501(a), or a purchaser.(f) "Financing transaction" 
means a transaction in which a licensed provider obtains financing from a financing entity 
including any secured or unsecured financing, any securitization transaction, or any securities 
offering which is either registered or exempt from registration under federal and state securities 
law.(g) "Fraudulent life settlement act" includes all of the following:1. Acts or omissions that are 
committed by any person, or that a person permits its employees or its agents to engage in, for 
the purpose of pecuniary gain, including any of the following:a. Presenting, causing to be 
presented, or preparing with the knowledge or belief that it will be presented to or by a provider, 
broker, purchaser, financing entity, insurer, insurance producer, or any other person, false 
material information, or concealing material information, as part of, in support of, or concerning 
a fact material to an application for the issuance of a life settlement contract or a policy; the 
underwriting of a life settlement contract or a policy; a claim for payment or benefit under a life 
settlement contract or a policy; premiums paid on an insurance policy; payments and changes in 
ownership or beneficiary made in accordance with the terms of a life settlement contract or a 
policy; the reinstatement or conversion of a policy; the solicitation, offer, effectuation, or sale of 
a life settlement contract or a policy; the issuance of written evidence of a life settlement contract 
or a policy; or a financing transaction.b. Employing any plan, device, scheme, or artifice to 

defraud in the business of life settlements.c. Failing to disclose to an insurer, if the request for 
such disclosure has been made by the insurer, that the prospective owner has undergone a life 
expectancy evaluation by any person or entity other than the insurer or its authorized 
representatives in connection with the issuance of the policy.2. Any of the following acts that 
any person does, or permits its employees or agents to do, in the furtherance of a fraud or to 
prevent the detection of a fraud:a. Removing, concealing, altering, destroying, or sequestering 
from the commissioner the assets or records of a licensee or other person engaged in the business 
of life settlements.b. Misrepresenting or concealing the financial condition of a licensee, 
financing entity, insurer, or other person.c. Transacting the business of life settlements in 
violation of laws requiring a license, certificate of authority, or other legal authority for the 
transaction of the business of life settlements.d. Filing with the commissioner or the chief 
insurance regulatory official of another jurisdiction a document containing false information or 
otherwise concealing information about a material fact from the commissioner or 
official.3. Embezzlement, theft, misappropriation, or conversion of monies, funds, premiums, 
credits, or other property of a life settlement provider, insurer, insured, owner, or any other 
person engaged in the business of life settlements or insurance.4. Recklessly entering into, 
negotiating, brokering, or otherwise dealing in a life settlement contract, the subject of which is a 
life insurance policy that was obtained by presenting false information concerning any fact 
material to the policy or by concealing for the purpose of misleading another information 
concerning any fact material to the policy, where the person or persons intended to defraud the 
policy's issuer, the provider, or the owner.5. Attempting to commit; assisting, aiding, or abetting 
in the commission of; or conspiring to commit the acts or omissions specified in this 
paragraph.6. Misrepresenting the state of residence of an owner to be a state that does not have a 
law substantially similar to this section for the purpose of evading or avoiding the provisions of 
this section.7. STOLI.(h) "Licensee" means a provider or broker that holds a license under sub. 
(2).(i) "Life expectancy" means the arithmetic mean, considering medical records and 
appropriate experiential data, of the number of months an insured under the policy to be settled 
can be expected to live.(j)1. "Life settlement" means an agreement regarding the terms under 
which compensation or any thing of value will be paid, which compensation or thing of value is 
less than the expected death benefit of the policy but greater than the cash surrender value or 
accelerated death benefit available under the policy at the time of the application for the life 
settlement, in return for the owner's present or future assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or 
bequest of the death benefit or any interest in a policy. "Life settlement" includes all of the 
following:a. The transfer for compensation or value of ownership or beneficial interest in a trust 
or other entity that owns a policy that insures the life of a person residing in this state, if the trust 
or other entity was formed or availed of for the principal purpose of acquiring one or more 
policies or certificates of insurance.b. A written agreement for a loan or other lending 
transaction, secured primarily by an individual or group policy.c. A premium finance loan made 
for a policy on, before, or after the date of issuance of the policy but only if the loan proceeds are 
not used solely to pay premiums for the policy and any costs or expenses incurred by the lender 
or the borrower in connection with the financing, or if the owner receives on the date of the 
premium finance loan a guarantee of the future life settlement value of the policy, or if the owner 
agrees on the date of the premium finance loan to sell the policy or any interest in its death 
benefit on any date following the issuance of the policy.2. "Life settlement" does not include any 
of the following:a. A policy loan by a life insurance company pursuant to the terms of the policy 
or accelerated death provisions contained in the policy, whether issued with the original policy or 

as a rider.b. Except as provided in subd. 1. c., a premium finance loan or any loan made by a 
bank or other licensed financial institution, provided that neither default on such loan nor the 
transfer of the policy in connection with such default is pursuant to an agreement or 
understanding with any other person for the purpose of evading regulation under this section.c. A 
collateral assignment of a policy by an owner.d. A loan made by a lender that does not violate 
s. 138.12, if the loan is not described in subd. 1. c. and is not otherwise a life settlement 
contract.e. An agreement where all the parties are closely related to the insured by blood or law, 
or have a lawful substantial economic interest in the continued life, health, and bodily safety of 
the person insured, or are trusts or other entities established primarily for the benefit of such 
parties.f. Any designation, consent, or agreement by an insured who is an employee of an 
employer in connection with the purchase by the employer, or trust established by the employer, 
of life insurance on the life of the employee.g. A bona fide business succession planning 
arrangement between one or more shareholders in a corporation or between a corporation and 
one or more of its shareholders or one or more trusts established by or for the benefit of its 
shareholders; between one or more partners in a partnership or between a partnership and one or 
more of its partners or one or more trusts established by or for the benefit of its partners; or 
between one or more members in a limited liability company or between a limited liability 
company and one or more of its members or one or more trusts established by or for the benefit 
of its members.h. An agreement, contract, or transaction that the commissioner excludes by rule 
under sub. (20) (a) after determining that the agreement, contract, or transaction is not intended 
to be regulated by this section.(k) "Life settlement contract" means a written document providing 
for and establishing the terms of a life settlement.(l) "Owner" means the owner of a policy or a 
certificate holder under a group policy who resides in this state, unless the context requires 
otherwise, and enters or seeks to enter into a life settlement contract. "Owner" does not include 
any of the following:1. A licensee under this section, including a producer acting as a broker 
under this section.2. A qualified institutional buyer, as defined in 17 CFR 230.144A (a) (1).3. A 
financing entity.4. A special purpose entity.5. A related provider trust.(m) "Policy" means an 
individual or group policy, certificate, contract, or arrangement of life insurance owned by a 
resident of this state, regardless of whether delivered or issued for delivery in this 
state.(n) "Premium finance loan" means a loan made primarily for the purpose of making 
premium payments on a policy that is secured by an interest in the policy.(o) "Producer" means 
any person licensed in this state as a resident or nonresident insurance intermediary or agent who 
has received qualification or authority for life insurance coverage or a life line of coverage 
pursuant to s. 628.04.(p) "Provider" means a person, other than an owner, that enters into or 
effectuates a life settlement contract with an owner. "Provider" does not include:1. A bank, 
savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union, or other licensed lending institution that 
takes an assignment of a policy solely as collateral for a loan.2. A premium finance company 
making premium finance loans and exempted by the commissioner from the licensing 
requirement under the premium finance law under s. 138.12 that takes an assignment of a policy 
solely as collateral for a loan.3. The issuer of a policy.4. An authorized or eligible insurer that 
provides stop loss coverage or financial guaranty insurance to a provider, purchaser, financing 
entity, special purpose entity, or related provider trust.5. Any natural person who enters into or 
effectuates no more than one agreement in a calendar year for the transfer of a policy for any 
value less than the expected death benefit.6. A special purpose entity.7. A related provider 
trust.8. A purchaser.9. A person that the commissioner excludes by rule under sub. (20) (a) after 
determining that the definition is not intended to cover the person.(q) "Purchase agreement" 

means a contract or agreement entered into by a purchaser, to which the owner is not a party, to 
purchase a settled policy or an interest in a settled policy for the purpose of deriving an economic 
benefit.(r) "Purchaser" means a person who provides a sum of money as consideration for a 
policy or an interest in the death benefits of a policy, or a person who owns or acquires or is 
entitled to a beneficial interest in a trust that owns a life settlement contract or is the beneficiary 
of a policy that has been or will be the subject of a life settlement contract, for the purpose of 
deriving an economic benefit. "Purchaser" does not include any of the following:1. A 
licensee.2. An accredited investor, as defined in 17 CFR 230.501 (a), or qualified institutional 
buyer, as defined in 17 CFR 230.114A (a) (1).3. A financing entity.4. A special purpose 
entity.5. A related provider trust.(s) "Recklessly" means in conscious and clearly unjustifiable 
disregard of a substantial likelihood of the existence of the relevant facts or risks, the disregard 
involving a gross deviation from acceptable standards of conduct.(t) "Related provider trust" 
means a trust that is established by a licensed provider or a financing entity for the sole purpose 
of holding the ownership or beneficial interest in purchased policies in connection with a 
financing transaction and that has a written agreement with the licensed provider under which the 
licensed provider is responsible for ensuring compliance with all statutory and regulatory 
requirements and under which the trust agrees to make all records and files relating to life 
settlement transactions available to the commissioner as if those records were maintained 
directly by the licensed provider.(u) "Settled" means, with respect to a policy, acquired by a 
provider under a life settlement contract.(v) "Special purpose entity" means a corporation, 
partnership, trust, limited liability company, or other similar entity formed solely to provide 
either direct or indirect access to institutional capital markets either for a financing entity or 
provider or in connection with a transaction in which the securities in the special purpose entity 
are either acquired by the owner or by a qualified institutional buyer, as defined in 17 CFR 
230.114A (a) (1) or pay a fixed rate of return commensurate with established asset-backed 
institutional capital markets.(w) "Stranger-originated life insurance" or "STOLI" means an act, 
practice, plan, or arrangement, individually or in concert with others, to initiate a life insurance 
policy for the benefit of a 3rd-party investor who, at the time of policy origination, has no 
insurable interest in the insured. STOLI includes cases in which life insurance is purchased with 
resources or guarantees from or through a person or entity who, at the time of policy inception, 
could not lawfully initiate the policy by the person or entity, and in which, at the time of 
inception, there is an arrangement or agreement, whether verbal or written, to directly or 
indirectly transfer the ownership of the policy or the policy benefits to a 3rd party. Trusts that are 
created to give the appearance of insurable interest, and are used to initiate policies for investors, 
violate insurable interest laws under s. 631.07 and the common law prohibition against wagering 
on life. STOLI does not include a loan, agreement, assignment, arrangement, or transaction set 
forth in sub. (1) (j) 2.(x) "Terminally ill" means having an illness or sickness that can reasonably 
be expected to result in death in 24 months or less.(2) LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.(a)1. No 
person may act as a provider or broker for an owner, without holding a license from the 
commissioner.2. A licensed attorney or a certified public accountant who is retained to represent 
the owner and whose compensation is not paid directly or indirectly by the provider or purchaser 
may negotiate life settlement contracts on behalf of the owner without having to obtain a license 
as a broker.(b) An applicant shall make an application for a license to the commissioner on a 
form prescribed by the commissioner. For a broker's license, the applicant shall submit the fee 
specified in s. 601.31 (1) (mr), subject to s. 601.31 (2m). For a provider's license, the applicant 
shall submit the fee specified in s. 601.31 (1) (mm), subject to s. 601.31 (2m).(c) The 

commissioner may not issue a license under this subsection unless the applicant provides his or 
her social security number or its federal employer identification number or, if the applicant does 
not have a social security number, a statement made or subscribed under oath or affirmation that 
the applicant does not have a social security number. An applicant who is providing a statement 
that he or she does not have a social security number, shall provide that statement along with the 
application for a license on a form prescribed by the department of children and families. A 
licensee shall provide to the commissioner the licensee's social security number, statement the 
licensee does not have the social security number, or federal employment identification number 
of the licensee at the time that the annual license renewal fee is paid, if not previously provided. 
The commissioner shall disclose a social security number obtained from an applicant or licensee 
to the department of children and families in the administration of s. 49.22, as provided in a 
memorandum of understanding entered into under s. 49.857. The commissioner may disclose the 
social security number or federal employment identification number of an applicant or licensee 
to the department of revenue for the purpose of requesting certifications under s. 73.0301 and to 
the department of workforce development for the purpose of requesting certifications under 
s. 108.227.(d)1. The commissioner shall refuse to issue or renew a license under this subsection 
if the person is delinquent in court-ordered payments of child or family support, maintenance, 
birth expenses, medical expenses, or other expenses related to the support of a child or former 
spouse, or if the person fails to comply, after appropriate notice, with a subpoena or warrant 
issued by the department of children and families or a county child support agency under s. 59.53 
(5) and related to paternity or child support proceedings, as provided in a memorandum of 
understanding entered into under s. 49.857.2. The commissioner shall refuse to issue or renew a 
license under this subsection if the department of revenue certifies under s. 73.0301 that the 
applicant for the license or renewal of the license is liable for delinquent taxes or if the 
department of workforce development certifies under s. 108.227 that the applicant for the license 
or renewal of the license is liable for delinquent unemployment insurance contributions.(e) The 
applicant shall provide information that the commissioner may require on forms prepared by the 
commissioner. The commissioner may require the applicant, at any time, to fully disclose the 
identity of its partners, officers, employees, and stockholders, except stockholders owning fewer 
than 10 percent of the shares of an applicant whose shares are publicly traded. The commissioner 
may refuse to issue a license if not satisfied that any officer, employee, stockholder, or partner 
who may materially influence the applicant's conduct meets the standards of this section.(f) A 
license issued to a partnership, corporation, or other entity authorizes all members, officers, and 
designated employees to act as a licensee under the license, if those persons are named in the 
application or any supplements to the application.(g) Upon the filing of an application and the 
payment of the license fee, the commissioner shall make an investigation of each applicant and 
shall issue a license if the commissioner finds that the applicant satisfies all of the following:1. If 
applying for a provider license, has provided a detailed plan of operation.2. Is competent and 
trustworthy and intends to transact its business in good faith.3. Has a good business reputation 
and has either the experience, training, or education so as to be qualified in the business for 
which the license is applicable.4.a. If applying for a provider license, has demonstrated evidence 
of financial responsibility in a format prescribed by the commissioner through either a surety 
bond executed and issued by an insurer authorized to issue surety bonds in this state or a deposit 
of cash, certificates of deposit, or securities or any combination of those in the amount of 
$250,000. Any surety bond issued under this subd. 4. a. shall be in the favor of this state and 
shall specifically authorize recovery by the commissioner on behalf of any person in this state 

who sustains damages as the result of erroneous acts, failure to act, conviction of fraud, or 
conviction of unfair practices by the provider. The commissioner shall accept as evidence of 
financial responsibility proof that financial instruments in accordance with the requirements in 
this subd. 4. a. have been filed in one state where the applicant is licensed as a provider.b. If 
applying for a broker license, has provided proof of the acquisition of a policy of professional 
liability insurance in an amount that is satisfactory to the commissioner.5. If the applicant is a 
legal entity, is formed or organized under the laws of this state or is a foreign legal entity 
authorized to transact business in this state, or provides a certificate of good standing from the 
state of its domicile.6. Has provided to the commissioner an antifraud plan that meets the 
requirements of sub. (15) (i).7. Has completed the initial training course under sub. (3) 
(e).(h) The commissioner may request evidence of financial responsibility under par. (g) 4. from 
an applicant at any time the commissioner deems necessary.(i) The commissioner shall not issue 
any license to any nonresident applicant, unless a written designation of an agent for service of 
process is filed and maintained with the commissioner or unless the applicant has filed with the 
commissioner the applicant's irrevocable consent that any action against the applicant may be 
commenced against the applicant by service of process on the commissioner in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in ss. 601.72 and 601.73.(j) Licenses may be renewed annually on July 1 
upon payment of the fee specified in s. 601.31 (1) (ms) by a broker, or the fee specified in 
s. 601.31 (1) (mp) by a provider. Failure to pay the fee by the renewal date shall result in the 
automatic revocation of the license.(k) Each licensee shall file with the commissioner on or 
before the first day of March of each year an annual statement containing the information 
required under sub. (6) (a) and any information the commissioner requires by rule.(l) A provider 
may not use any person to perform the functions of a broker unless the person holds a current, 
valid license as a broker.(m) A broker may not use any person to perform the functions of a 
provider unless the person holds a current, valid license as a provider.(n) A provider or broker 
shall provide to the commissioner new or revised information about officers, partners, directors, 
members, designated employees, or stockholders, except stockholders owning fewer than 10 
percent of the shares of a provider or broker whose shares are publicly traded, within 30 days of 
the change.(o) The insurer that issued the policy that is the subject of a life settlement contract 
may not be held responsible for any act or omission of a broker or provider arising out of or in 
connection with the life settlement, unless the insurer receives compensation for the placement of 
a life settlement contract from the broker or provider or from a purchaser in connection with the 
life settlement contract.(3) TRAINING.(a) An individual applicant for a license under sub. (2) or 
a licensee who engages in the business of life settlements in this state shall receive training to 
ensure all of the following:1. The individual understands the relation of life settlement 
transactions to the integrity of a comprehensive financial plan of an owner.2. The individual has 
adequate knowledge to competently discuss the material aspects of life settlements with an 
owner.3. The individual complies with the laws of this state relating to life 
settlements.(b) Training required under this subsection must be approved by the commissioner 
and provided by an education provider that is approved by the commissioner. The commissioner 
may approve the training required under this subsection for continuing education under s. 628.04 
(3). Training required under this subsection shall not increase the credit hours of continuing 
education required by statute or rule. Certification and reporting of completion of the required 
training shall comply with the requirements of s. Ins 28.07, Wis. Adm. Code. Any person failing 
to meet the requirements of this subsection shall be subject to the penalties imposed by the 
commissioner.(c) The satisfaction of the training requirements of another state that are 

substantially similar to the requirements set forth in this subsection, and are approved by the 
commissioner, satisfy the requirements of this subsection.(d) Training provided under this 
subsection shall include all of the following topics, at a minimum:1. Legal structuring of life 
settlements.2. Legal relationships among the parties to a life settlement.3. Required disclosures 
and privacy requirements.4. Ethical considerations in selling, soliciting, and negotiating life 
settlements.5. Contract requirements.6. Advertising.7. Remedies.8. Licensing 
requirements.9. Additional matters as determined by the commissioner.(e) An individual 
applicant for a license under sub. (2) shall complete an initial training course of not less than 8 
hours. An electronic confirmation of completion of initial training shall accompany the 
application for initial licensure. A licensee shall complete training of not less than 4 hours every 
24 months after the initial training course. A person who holds a license under s. 632.68, 2007 
stats., on November 1, 2010, shall complete initial training within 6 months after November 1, 
2010.(4) LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR REFUSAL TO RENEW.(a) The 
commissioner may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the license of any licensee if, after a 
hearing, the commissioner finds any of the following:1. Any material misrepresentation in the 
application for the license.2. That the licensee or any officer, partner, member, or director of the 
licensee is guilty of fraudulent or dishonest practices, is subject to a final administrative action, 
or is otherwise shown to be untrustworthy or incompetent to act as a licensee.3. If the licensee is 
a provider, that the licensee demonstrates a pattern of unreasonably withholding payments to 
owners.4. That the licensee no longer meets the requirements for licensure.5. That the licensee or 
any officer, partner, member, or director of the licensee has been convicted of a felony or of any 
misdemeanor of which criminal fraud is an element or has pleaded other than not guilty with 
respect to any felony or any misdemeanor of which criminal fraud or moral turpitude is an 
element, regardless whether a judgment of conviction has been entered by the court.6. If the 
licensee is a provider, that the licensee has entered into any life settlement contract the form of 
which has not been approved by the commissioner under this section.7. If the licensee is a 
provider, that the licensee has failed to honor obligations set out in a life settlement contract.8. If 
the licensee is a provider, that the licensee has assigned, transferred, or pledged a settled policy 
to a person other than a provider licensed in this state, a purchaser, an accredited investor as 
defined in 17 CFR 230.501 (a) or a qualified institutional buyer as defined in 17 CFR 230.144A 
(a) (1), a financing entity, a special purpose entity, or a related provider trust.9. That the licensee 
or any officer, partner, member, or key management personnel has violated any of the provisions 
of this section.(b) Nothing in this subsection limits the authority of the commissioner to 
summarily suspend a license under s. 227.51 (3).(c) The commissioner shall suspend a license if 
the licensee is delinquent in court-ordered payments of child or family support, maintenance, 
birth expenses, medical expenses, or other expenses related to the support of a child or former 
spouse or if the licensee fails to comply, after appropriate notice, with a subpoena or warrant 
issued by the department of children and families or a county child support agency under s. 59.53 
(5) that is related to paternity or child support proceedings, as provided in a memorandum of 
understanding entered into under s. 49.857.(d) The commissioner shall revoke the license of a 
licensee if the department of revenue certifies under s. 73.0301 that the licensee is liable for 
delinquent taxes or if the department of workforce development certifies under s. 108.227 that 
the licensee is liable for delinquent unemployment insurance contributions.(5) CONTRACT 
REQUIREMENTS.(a) No person may use a life settlement contract form or provide to an owner 
a disclosure statement form in this state unless first filed with and approved by the 
commissioner. The form is approved if the commissioner does not disapprove of the form within 

30 days after filing or within a 30-day extension of that period ordered by the commissioner 
before the expiration of the first 30 days. To disapprove a form, the commissioner shall state in 
writing the reasons for disapproval sufficiently explicitly that the licensee is provided reasonable 
guidance in reformulating its forms. The commissioner shall disapprove a life settlement contract 
form or disclosure statement form if the commissioner determines the form or provisions 
contained in the form fail to meet the requirements of this section, are unreasonable, are contrary 
to the interests of the public, or are otherwise misleading or unfair to the owner.(b) No insurer 
may, as a condition of responding to a request for verification of coverage or in connection with 
the transfer of a policy under a life settlement contract, require that the owner, insured, provider, 
or broker sign any form, disclosure, consent, waiver, or acknowledgment that has not been 
expressly approved by the commissioner for use in connection with life settlement contracts in 
this state.(6) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND PRIVACY.(a)1. In addition to any other 
requirements, the annual statement that is filed with the commissioner shall specify the total 
number, aggregate face amount, and life settlement proceeds of policies settled during the 
immediately preceding calendar year, together with a breakdown of the information by policy 
issue year. The annual statement shall also include the names of the insurance companies whose 
policies have been settled and the brokers that were involved in settling the policies. Each 
provider shall provide in the annual statement any information about any policy settled within 5 
years of policy issuance that the commissioner may prescribe by rule.2. Information provided in 
the annual statement shall be limited to those transactions in which the owner is a resident of this 
state and shall not include individual transaction data regarding the business of life settlements or 
information that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the owner or the 
insured.3. Every provider that willfully fails to file an annual statement as required in this 
section, or willfully fails to reply within 30 days to a written inquiry by the commissioner 
regarding the annual statement, shall be subject to a forfeiture under s. 601.64 (3) (c) and to 
license suspension, revocation, or nonrenewal.(b) A provider, broker, insurance company, 
producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, or any other person with actual 
knowledge of an insured's identity, shall not disclose the identity of an insured or information 
that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the insured or the insured's 
financial or medical information to any other person unless one of the following applies:1. The 
disclosure is necessary to effect a life settlement contract between the owner and a provider, and 
the owner and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure.2. The disclosure is 
necessary to effectuate a sale of life settlement contracts, or interests in life settlement contracts, 
as investments, if the sale is conducted in accordance with applicable state and federal securities 
law and if the owner and the insured have both provided prior written consent to the 
disclosure.3. The disclosure is provided in response to an investigation or examination by the 
commissioner or any other governmental officer or agency or pursuant to the requirements of 
sub. (15).4. The disclosure is a term or condition of the transfer of a policy by one provider to 
another provider. In such cases, the receiving provider shall be required to comply with the 
confidentiality requirements of this subsection.5. The disclosure is necessary to allow the 
provider or broker or their authorized representatives to make contacts for the purpose of 
determining health status. For the purposes of this subdivision, "authorized representative" does 
not include any person who has or may have any financial interest in the life settlement contract 
other than a provider, broker, financing entity, related provider trust, or special purpose entity. A 
provider or broker shall require its authorized representative to agree in writing to adhere to the 
privacy provisions of this subsection.6. The disclosure is required to purchase stop loss 

coverage.(c) Nonpublic personal information solicited or obtained in connection with a proposed 
or actual life settlement contract shall be subject to all applicable laws of this state relating to 
confidentiality of nonpublic personal information.(7) EXAMINATIONS AND 
ALTERNATIVES.(a) The commissioner may, whenever the commissioner determines it is 
necessary in order to be informed about any matter related to the enforcement of this section, 
examine the business and affairs of any licensee or applicant for a license, under the provisions 
of ss. 601.43 to 601.45.(b) The commissioner shall consider names and individual identification 
data for all owners, purchasers, and insureds private and confidential information and shall not 
disclose names or identification data unless the disclosure is to another regulator or is required 
by law.(c)1. A person required to be licensed by this section shall for 5 years retain, and make 
available to the commissioner for inspection at all reasonable times in accordance with s. 601.42, 
copies of all of the following:a. Proposed, offered, or executed life settlement contracts, purchase 
agreements, underwriting documents, policy forms, and applications from the date of the 
proposal, offer, or execution of a life settlement contract or purchase agreement, whichever is 
later.b. All checks, drafts, or other evidence and documentation related to the payment, transfer, 
deposit, or release of funds from the date of the financing transaction, life settlement, or purchase 
agreement.c. All other records and documents related to the requirements of this 
section.2. Records required to be retained under subd. 1. must be legible and complete and may 
be retained in paper, photograph, microprocess, magnetic, mechanical or electronic media, or by 
any process that accurately reproduces or forms a durable medium for reproduction of a 
record.(8) DISCLOSURES TO OWNER; DISCLOSURE TO INSURED.(a)1. With each 
application for a life settlement, a provider or broker shall disclose to the owner, in a separate 
document that is signed by the owner and the provider or broker, at least all of the following 
information no later than the time the application for the life settlement is signed by all 
parties:a. That there are possible alternatives to life settlement contracts, including any 
accelerated death benefits or policy loans offered under the owner's policy.b. That the broker 
represents exclusively the owner, and not the insurer or the provider, and owes a fiduciary duty 
to the owner, including the duty to act according to the owner's instructions and in the best 
interest of the owner.c. That some or all of the proceeds of the life settlement may be taxable 
under federal income tax and state franchise and income tax laws, and the owner should seek 
assistance from a professional tax advisor.d. That proceeds from a life settlement may be subject 
to the claims of creditors.e. That receipt of proceeds from a life settlement may adversely affect 
the owner's eligibility for Medical Assistance or other government benefits or entitlements, and 
the owner should seek advice from the appropriate government agencies.f. That the owner has a 
right to rescind a life settlement contract before the earlier of 30 calendar days after the date 
upon which the life settlement contract is executed by all parties or 15 calendar days after the life 
settlement proceeds have been paid to the owner, as provided in sub. (11) (d). Rescission, if 
exercised by the owner, is effective only if both notice of the rescission is given and the owner 
repays all proceeds and any premiums, loans, and loan interest paid on account of the life 
settlement within the rescission period. If the insured dies during the rescission period, the life 
settlement contract is rescinded, subject to repayment by the owner or the owner's estate to the 
provider or purchaser of all life settlement proceeds, and any premiums, loans, and loan interest 
that have been paid by the provider or purchaser, which shall be repaid within 60 calendar days 
of the death of the insured.g. That funds will be sent to the owner within 3 business days after the 
provider has received the insurer's or group administrator's written acknowledgement that 
ownership of the policy or interest in the certificate has been transferred and the beneficiary has 

been designated.h. That entering into a life settlement contract may cause other rights or 
benefits, including conversion rights and waiver of premium benefits that may exist under the 
policy, to be forfeited by the owner, and the owner should seek assistance from a professional 
financial advisor.i. The language: "All medical, financial, or personal information solicited or 
obtained by a provider or broker about an insured, including the insured's identity or the identity 
of family members, a spouse, or a significant other, may be disclosed as necessary to effect the 
life settlement between the owner and provider. If you are asked to provide this information, you 
will be asked to consent to the disclosure. The information may be provided to someone who 
buys the policy or provides funds for the purchase. You may be asked to renew your permission 
to share information every 2 years."j. That, following execution of a life settlement contract, the 
insured may be contacted for the purpose of determining the insured's health status and to 
confirm the insured's residential or business street address and telephone number, or as otherwise 
allowed in this section. This contact shall be limited to once every 3 months if the insured has a 
life expectancy of more than one year and no more than once per month if the insured has a life 
expectancy of one year or less. All such contacts with the insured shall be made only by a 
provider licensed in the state in which the owner resided at the time of the life settlement, or by 
an authorized representative of the provider.2. At the time the disclosures in subd. 1. are 
provided, the broker or provider shall provide to the owner a brochure describing the process of 
life settlements that is approved by the commissioner.(b) A provider shall disclose to the owner, 
either conspicuously displayed in the life settlement contract or in a separate document signed by 
the owner, at least all of the following information no later than the date the life settlement 
contract is signed by all parties:1. The affiliation, if any, between the provider and the issuer of 
the policy to be settled.2. The name, business address, and telephone number of the 
provider.3. Any affiliation or contractual arrangements between the provider and the 
purchaser.4. If a policy to be settled has been issued as a joint policy or involves family riders or 
any coverage of a life other than that of the insured under the policy to be settled, the possible 
loss of coverage on the other lives under the policy, together with a statement advising the owner 
to consult with the insurer issuing the policy for advice concerning the proposed life 
settlement.5. The dollar amount of the current death benefit that will be payable to the provider 
under the policy. If known, the provider shall also disclose the availability of any additional 
guaranteed insurance benefits, the dollar amount of any accidental death and dismemberment 
benefits under the policy, and the extent to which the owner's interest in those benefits will be 
transferred as a result of the life settlement contract.6. That the funds will be escrowed with an 
independent 3rd party during the transfer process; the name, business address, and telephone 
number of the independent 3rd party escrow agent; and that the owner may inspect or receive 
copies of the relevant escrow or trust agreements or documents.(c) A broker shall disclose to the 
owner, either conspicuously displayed in the life settlement contract or in a separate document 
signed by the owner, at least all of the following information no later than the date the life 
settlement contract is signed by all parties:1. The name, business address, and telephone number 
of the broker.2. A full, complete, and accurate description of all offers, counteroffers, 
acceptances, and rejections related to the proposed life settlement contract.3. A written statement 
of any affiliation or contractual arrangement between the broker and any person making an offer 
in connection with the proposed life settlement contract.4. The amount of the broker's 
compensation, including anything of value paid or given to the broker for the placement of the 
policy.5. If any portion of the broker's compensation is taken from a proposed life settlement, the 
total amount of the life settlement offer and the percentage of the life settlement comprised by 

the broker's compensation.(d) If the provider transfers ownership or changes the beneficiary of 
the policy, the provider shall communicate in writing the change in ownership or beneficiary to 
the insured within 20 days after the change.(9) DISCLOSURES TO PURCHASER.(a)1. A 
provider shall disclose to a purchaser, conspicuously displayed in the purchase agreement or in a 
separate document signed by the purchaser and provider, at least all of the following information 
prior to the date the purchase agreement is signed by all parties:a. That the purchaser will receive 
no returns, including dividends and interest, until the insured dies and a death claim payment is 
made.b. That the actual rate of return on a life settlement contract is dependent upon an accurate 
projection of the insured's life expectancy and the actual date of the insured's death and that an 
annual guaranteed rate of return is not determinable.c. That the settled policy should not be 
considered a liquid purchase since it is impossible to predict the exact timing of its maturity and 
the funds are not available until the death of the insured and that there is no established 
secondary market for resale of a settled policy by the purchaser.d. That the purchaser may lose 
all benefits or may receive substantially reduced benefits if the insurer goes out of business 
during the contract term of the life settlement investment.e. That the purchaser is responsible for 
payment of the insurance premiums or other costs related to the policy, if required by the terms 
of the purchase agreement, even if the insured returns to health, and that the payments may 
reduce the purchaser's return. If a party other than the purchaser is responsible for the payment, 
the name and address of the party responsible for payment shall be disclosed.f. The amount of 
the premiums, if applicable.g. The name, business address, and telephone number of the 
independent 3rd party providing escrow services and any relationship to the broker.h. The 
amount of any trust fees or expenses to be charged the purchaser.i. Whether the purchaser is 
entitled to a refund of all or part of the purchaser's investment under the purchase agreement if 
the policy is later determined to be null and void.j. That group policies may contain limitations 
or caps in the conversion rights, that additional premiums may have to be paid if the policy is 
converted, the name of the party responsible for payment of any additional premiums, and that if 
a group policy is terminated and replaced by another group policy, there may be no right to 
convert the original coverage.k. The risks associated with policy contestability, including the risk 
that the purchaser will have no claim or only a partial claim to death benefits should the insurer 
rescind the policy within the contestability period.l. Whether the purchaser will be the owner of 
the policy in addition to being the beneficiary, and if the purchaser is the beneficiary only and 
not also the owner, the special risks associated with that status, including the risk that the 
beneficiary may be changed or the premium may not be paid.m. The experience and 
qualifications of the person who determines the life expectancy of the insured, including in-
house staff, independent physicians, and specialty firms that weigh medical and actuarial data, 
the information the projection is based on, and the relationship of the projection maker to the 
provider, if any.2. At the time the disclosures in subd. 1. are provided, the provider shall provide 
to the purchaser a brochure approved by the commissioner describing the process of the purchase 
of a settled policy.(b) A provider shall disclose to a purchaser, in a document signed by the 
purchaser and provider, at least all of the following no later than at the time of the assignment, 
transfer, or sale of all of or an interest in a policy:1. All the life expectancy certifications 
obtained by the provider in the process of determining the price to be paid to the 
owner.2. Whether the premium payments or other costs related to the policy have been escrowed 
and, if so, the date upon which the escrowed funds will be depleted, whether the purchaser will 
be responsible for payment of premiums after the depletion of escrowed funds, and the amount 
of the premium if the purchaser is responsible for payment.3. Whether the premiums or other 

costs related to the policy have been waived and, if so, whether the purchaser will be responsible 
for payment of the premiums if the insurer that issued the policy terminates the waiver after 
purchase and, if so, the amount of the premiums.4. Whether the type of policy offered or sold is 
whole life, term life, universal life, a group policy, or another type of policy, any additional 
benefits contained in the policy, and the current status of the policy.5. If the policy is term 
insurance, the special risks associated with term insurance including the purchaser's 
responsibility for additional premiums if the owner continues the term policy at the end of the 
current term.6. Whether the policy is contestable.7. Whether the insurer that issued the policy has 
any additional rights that could negatively affect or extinguish the purchaser's rights under the 
purchase agreement and, if so, what those rights are and under what conditions those rights are 
activated.8. The name and address of the person responsible for monitoring the insured's 
condition, how often the monitoring is done, how the date of death is determined, and how and 
when the information will be transmitted to the purchaser.(10) DISCLOSURE TO INSURER. 
Before initiating a plan, transaction, or series of transactions, a broker or provider shall fully 
disclose to the insurer a plan, transaction, or series of transactions to which the broker or 
provider is a party to originate, renew, continue, or finance a policy with the insurer for the 
purpose of engaging in the business of life settlements at any time prior to, or during the first 5 
years after, issuance of the policy.(11) GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.(a)1. Before entering into 
a life settlement contract, a provider shall obtain all of the following:a. If the owner is the 
insured, a written statement from a licensed attending physician that the owner is of sound mind 
and under no constraint or undue influence to enter into a life settlement contract.b. A document 
in which the insured consents to the release of his or her medical records to a licensed provider, 
licensed broker, and the insurer that issued the policy covering the life of the insured.2. Within 
20 days after an owner executes documents necessary to transfer any rights under a policy or 
within 20 days after the owner enters any agreement, option, promise, or any other form of 
understanding, express or implied, to settle the policy, the provider shall give written notice to 
the insurer that issued the policy that the policy has or will become a settled policy.3. The 
provider shall deliver a copy of the medical release required under subd. 1. b., a copy of the 
owner's application for the life settlement contract, the notice required under subd. 2., and a 
request for verification of coverage to the insurer that issued the policy that is the subject of the 
life settlement. The provider shall use a form created by the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners for verification of coverage unless the commissioner develops and approves 
another form.4. The insurer shall respond to a request for verification of coverage that is 
submitted on an approved form by a provider or broker within 30 calendar days after the date the 
request is received and shall indicate whether, based on the medical evidence and documents 
provided, the insurer intends to pursue an investigation regarding the validity of the insurance 
contract or possible fraud. The insurer shall accept a request for verification of coverage made on 
a form created by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any other form 
approved by the commissioner, and shall accept an original, facsimile, or electronic copy of the 
request and any accompanying signed authorization.5. Before or at the time of execution of the 
life settlement contract, the provider shall obtain a witnessed document in which the owner does 
all of the following:a. Consents to the life settlement contract.b. Represents that he or she has a 
complete understanding of the life settlement contract.c. Represents that he or she has a complete 
understanding of the benefits of the policy.d. Acknowledges that he or she is entering into the 
life settlement contract freely and voluntarily.e. If applicable, acknowledges that the insured has 
a terminal or chronic illness and that the terminal or chronic illness or condition was diagnosed 

after the policy was issued.6. If a broker performs any of the activities required in subd. 1., 2., 3., 
or 5., the provider shall be considered to have performed that activity.(b) All medical 
information solicited or obtained by any licensee shall be subject to the applicable provisions of 
state law relating to confidentiality of medical information, including s. 610.70.(c) All life 
settlement contracts entered into in this state shall provide the owner with an absolute right to 
rescind the contract before the earlier of 30 calendar days after the date on which the life 
settlement contract is executed by all parties or 15 calendar days after the life settlement 
proceeds have been sent to the owner as provided in par. (d). Rescission by the owner may be 
conditioned upon the owner both giving notice and repaying to the provider, within the 
rescission period, all proceeds of the settlement and any premiums, loans, and loan interest paid 
by or on behalf of the provider in connection with or as a consequence of the life settlement. If 
the insured dies during the rescission period, the life settlement contract is rescinded, subject to 
repayment, within 60 calendar days after the death of the insured, by the owner or the owner's 
estate to the provider or purchaser of all life settlement proceeds and any premiums, loans, and 
loan interest that have been paid by the provider or purchaser. If a life settlement contract is 
rescinded under this paragraph, ownership of the policy shall revert to the owner or the owner's 
estate if the owner is deceased, irrespective of any transfer of ownership of the policy by the 
owner, provider, or any other person. In the event of any rescission, if the provider has paid 
commissions or other compensation to a broker in connection with the rescinded life settlement 
contract, the broker shall refund the commissions and compensation to the provider within 5 
business days following receipt of written demand from the provider, which demand shall be 
accompanied by the applicable document initiating the rescission within the rescission period, 
either the owner's notice of rescission or the notice of death of the insured.(d) The provider shall 
instruct the owner to send the executed documents required to effect the change in ownership, 
assignment, or change in beneficiary directly to the independent escrow agent. Within 3 business 
days after the date the independent escrow agent receives the documents, or after the date the 
provider receives the documents if the owner erroneously provides the documents directly to the 
provider, the provider shall pay or transfer the proceeds of the life settlement into an escrow or 
trust account that is maintained in a state or federally chartered financial institution whose 
deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and managed by an 
independent trustee or escrow agent. Upon payment of the life settlement proceeds into the 
escrow account, the independent escrow agent shall deliver the original change in ownership, 
assignment, or change in beneficiary form to the provider or related provider trust or other 
designated representative of the provider. Upon the escrow agent's receipt of acknowledgement 
of the properly completed transfer of ownership, assignment, or designation of beneficiary from 
the insurer, the independent escrow agent shall pay the life settlement proceeds to the 
owner.(e) Failure to tender the life settlement proceeds to the owner within the time set forth in 
the disclosure under sub. (8) (a) 1. g., renders the life settlement contract voidable by the owner 
for lack of consideration until the time the proceeds are tendered to and accepted by the owner. 
Funds are sent by a provider to an owner as of the date that the escrow agent either releases 
funds for wire transfer to the owner or places a check for delivery to the owner via the U.S. 
postal service or other nationally recognized delivery service.(f) For the purpose of determining 
the health status of the insured after the life settlement has occurred, only the provider or broker 
licensed in this state or a person it authorizes may contact the insured. Contact with the insured 
shall be limited to once every 3 months for an insured with a life expectancy of more than one 
year, and to no more than once per month for an insured with a life expectancy or one year or 

less. The provider or broker shall explain the procedure for the contacts to the owner at the time 
the life settlement contract is entered into. The limitations in this paragraph do not apply to any 
contacts with an insured for reasons other than determining the insured's health status. Providers 
and brokers shall be responsible for the actions of a person they authorize to make the 
contact.(12) PROHIBITED CONTRACTS; REQUIRED FORM; ACKNOWLEDGEMENT; 
FIDUCIARY DUTY.(a) No person may enter into a life settlement contract at any time before 
the application or issuance of a policy that is the subject of a life settlement contract or within a 
5-year period commencing with the date of issuance of the policy unless any of the following 
conditions have been met:1. The owner certifies to the provider that, within the 5-year period, the 
policy was issued upon the owner's exercise of conversion rights arising out of a group or 
individual policy, provided the total of the time covered under the conversion policy plus the 
time covered under the prior policy is at least 60 months. The time covered under the group 
policy shall be calculated without regard to any change in insurance carriers, if the coverage has 
been continuous and under the same group sponsorship.2. The owner submits independent 
evidence to the provider that any of the following conditions have been met within the 5-year 
period:a. The owner or insured is terminally or chronically ill.b. The owner's spouse or child 
dies.c. The owner divorces his or her spouse.d. The owner retires from full-time 
employment.e. The owner becomes physically or mentally disabled and a physician determines 
that the disability prevents the owner from maintaining full-time employment.f. A final order, 
judgment, or decree is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, on the application of a 
creditor of the owner, adjudicating the owner bankrupt or insolvent, approving a petition seeking 
reorganization of the owner, or appointing a receiver, trustee, or liquidator to all or a substantial 
part of the owner's assets.g. The sole beneficiary of the policy is a family member of the owner 
and the beneficiary dies.h. The owner is a charitable organization with an insurable interest that 
has received from the federal Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that is currently in 
effect stating that the charitable organization is described in section 501 (c) (3) of the Internal 
Revenue Code and is exempt from federal income taxation under section 501 (a) of the Internal 
Revenue Code.i. The owner or insured disposes of ownership interests in a closely held 
corporation pursuant to the terms of a buyout or other similar agreement in effect at the time the 
policy was initially issued.j. Other circumstances exist that are established as eligible exemptions 
by the commissioner by rule, including substantial adverse financial circumstances or other 
factors substantially affecting the owner.3. The owner certifies to the provider that the owner is 
entering into a life settlement contract more than 2 years after the date of issuance of a policy 
and, with respect to the policy, at all times before the date that is 2 years after policy issuance all 
of the following conditions are met:a. Policy premiums are funded exclusively with 
unencumbered assets, including an interest in the policy being financed only to the extent of its 
net cash surrender value, provided by, or full recourse liability incurred by, the owner or a person 
described in sub. (1) (j) 2. e.b. There is no agreement or understanding with any other person to 
guarantee any liability or to purchase, or stand ready to purchase, the policy, including through 
an assumption or forgiveness of a loan.c. Neither the insured nor the policy has been evaluated 
for settlement.(b) Copies of the independent evidence described in par. (a) 2. and documents 
required by sub. (11) (a) shall be submitted to the insurer when the provider entering into a life 
settlement contract with an owner submits a request to the insurer for verification of coverage. 
The provider shall submit, along with the copies, a letter of attestation from the provider that the 
copies are true and correct copies of the documents received by the provider.(c) If the provider 
submits to the insurer a copy of the owner's certification under par. (a) 1. or 3. or independent 

evidence under par. (a) 2. when the provider submits a request to the insurer to effect the transfer 
of the policy to the provider, the copy conclusively establishes that the life settlement contract 
satisfies the requirements of this subsection and the insurer shall timely respond to the 
request.(d) No insurer may, as a condition of responding to a request for verification of coverage 
or effecting the transfer of a policy pursuant to a life settlement contract, require that the owner, 
insured, provider, or broker sign any form, disclosure, consent, or waiver that has not been 
expressly approved by the commissioner for use in connection with life settlement contracts in 
this state.(e) Upon receipt of a properly completed request for change of ownership or 
beneficiary of a policy, the insurer shall respond in writing within 30 calendar days with 
acknowledgement confirming that the change has been effected or specifying the reasons why 
the requested change cannot be processed.(f) A broker represents only the owner and owes a 
fiduciary duty to the owner to act according to the owner's instructions and in the best interest of 
the owner, notwithstanding the manner in which the broker is compensated.(13) PROHIBITED 
PRACTICES AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.(a) No person may enter into a life settlement 
contract if the person knows or reasonably should have known that the policy that is the subject 
of the life settlement contract was obtained by means of a false, deceptive, or misleading 
application for the policy.(b) No person may engage in any transaction, practice, or course of 
business if the person knows or reasonably should know that the intent is to avoid the notice 
requirements of this section.(c) No person may engage in any fraudulent act or practice in 
connection with any transaction relating to any life settlement involving an owner.(d) No person 
may issue, solicit, market, or otherwise promote the purchase of a policy for the primary purpose 
of or with a primary emphasis on settling the policy.(e) No person may enter into a premium 
finance agreement with any person or agency, or any person affiliated with such person or 
agency, pursuant to which the person who is providing premium financing receives any 
proceeds, fees, or other consideration, directly or indirectly, from the policy or owner of the 
policy or any other person with respect to the premium finance agreement or any life settlement 
contract or other transaction related to the policy that is in addition to the amounts required to 
pay the principal, interest, and service charges related to policy premiums pursuant to the 
premium finance agreement or subsequent sale of the agreement. Any payments, charges, fees, 
or other amounts in addition to the amounts required to pay the principal, interest, and service 
charges related to policy premiums paid under the premium finance agreement shall be remitted 
to the original owner of the policy or to the owner's estate if the owner is not living at the time of 
the determination of the overpayment.(f) With respect to any life settlement contract or policy, 
no broker may knowingly solicit an offer from, effectuate a life settlement with, or make a sale 
to any provider, purchaser, financing entity, or related provider trust that is controlling, 
controlled by, or under common control with the broker unless the relationship is disclosed to the 
owner.(g) With respect to any life settlement contract or policy, no provider may knowingly 
enter into a life settlement contract with an owner, if, in connection with the life settlement 
contract, anything of value will be paid to a broker that is controlling, controlled by, or under 
common control with the provider or the purchaser, financing entity, or related provider trust that 
is involved in the life settlement contract unless the relationship is disclosed to the owner.(h) No 
life settlement promotional, advertising, or marketing materials may represent that the insurance 
is "free" for any period of time, or include any reference that would cause an owner to 
reasonably believe that the insurance is free for any period of time.(i) No producer, insurer, 
broker, or provider may make any statement or representation to an applicant or policyholder in 
connection with the sale or financing of a policy to the effect that the insurance is free or without 

cost to the policyholder for any period of time unless provided in the 
policy.(14) ADVERTISEMENTS OF LIFE SETTLEMENT CONTRACTS AND PURCHASE 
AGREEMENTS.(a) This subsection applies to any advertising of life settlement contracts, 
purchase agreements, or related products or services intended for dissemination in this state, 
including Internet advertising viewed by persons located in this state.(b) If disclosure 
requirements are established by federal regulation, this subsection shall be interpreted so as to 
minimize or eliminate conflict with federal regulation.(c) The commissioner may require a 
broker or provider to submit advertising material at any time.(d) Every licensee shall establish 
and maintain a system of control over the content, form, and method of dissemination of all 
advertisements of its life settlement contracts, products, and services. All advertisements, 
regardless who wrote, created, designed, or presented the advertisement, shall be the 
responsibility of the licensee and the person who created or presented the advertisement. The 
system of control shall include regular routine notification of the requirements and procedures 
for approval prior to use of any advertisements not furnished by the licensee, at least once a year, 
to producers, brokers, and others authorized by the licensee who disseminate 
advertisements.(e) Advertisements shall be truthful and not misleading in fact or by implication. 
The form and content of an advertisement of a life settlement contract or purchase agreement, 
product, or service shall be sufficiently complete and clear so as to avoid deception. The 
advertisement may not have the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive. The commissioner 
shall determine whether an advertisement has the capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive 
from the overall impression that the advertisement may be reasonably expected to create upon a 
person of average education or intelligence within the segment of the public to which it is 
directed.(f) Disclosures that are required under this subsection may not be minimized, rendered 
obscure, presented in an ambiguous fashion, or intermingled with the text of the advertisement so 
as to be confusing or misleading.(g) An advertisement may not do any of the following:1. Omit 
material information or use words, phrases, statements, references, or illustrations if the omission 
or use has the capacity, tendency, or effect of misleading or deceiving an owner, purchaser, or 
prospective purchaser as to the nature or extent of any benefit, covered loss, premium payable, or 
state or federal tax consequences. A misleading statement is not remedied by any of the 
following:a. Making the life settlement contract or purchase agreement available for inspection 
prior to consummation of the sale.b. Offering to refund payment if the owner is not 
satisfied.c. Including in the life settlement contract or purchase agreement a "free look" period 
that satisfies or exceeds the requirements of law.2. Use the name or title of a life insurance 
company or a policy unless the advertisement has been approved by the insurer.3. Represent that 
premium payments will not be required on the policy that is the subject of a life settlement 
contract or purchase agreement in order to maintain the policy unless that is the fact.4. State or 
imply that interest charged on an accelerated death benefit or loan is unfair, inequitable, or, in 
any manner, an incorrect or improper practice.5. Use the words "free," "no cost," "without cost," 
"no additional cost," "at no extra cost," or similar words or phrases with respect to any benefit or 
services, unless true. An advertisement may specify the charge for a benefit or service or may 
state that a charge is included in the payment or use other appropriate language.6. Use 
testimonials, appraisals, analyses, or endorsements in advertisements unless they are genuine; 
represent the current opinion of the author; are applicable to the life settlement contract or 
purchase agreement, product, or service advertised; and are reproduced with sufficient 
completeness to avoid misleading or deceiving prospective owners or purchasers as to the nature 
or scope of the testimonial, appraisal, analysis, or endorsement. Any financial interest in or 

benefit received from the licensee by the person making a testimonial, appraisal, or analysis, 
directly or indirectly, shall be prominently disclosed in the advertisement. If an endorsement 
refers to benefits received under a life settlement contract or purchase agreement, the licensee 
shall retain all pertinent information forming a basis of the endorsement for a period of 5 years 
following its use.7. State or imply that a life settlement contract or purchase agreement, benefit, 
or service has been approved or endorsed by a group, society, association, or other organization 
unless that is the fact and unless any relationship between the organization and the licensee is 
disclosed. If the entity making the endorsement is owned, controlled, or managed by the licensee, 
or receives any payment or other consideration from the licensee for making an endorsement or 
testimonial, that fact must be disclosed in the advertisement.8. Contain statistical information 
unless the information accurately reflects recent and relevant facts. An advertisement shall 
identify the source of all statistics used in the advertisement.9. Disparage insurers, providers, 
brokers, producers, policies, services, or methods of marketing.10. Omit the name of the actual 
licensee from any advertisement. No advertisement may use a trade name, group designation, 
name of the parent company of a licensee, name of a division of a life settlement licensee, 
service mark, slogan, symbol, or other device or reference if the advertisement would have the 
capacity or tendency to mislead or deceive as to the true identity of the licensee or to create the 
impression that any entity other than the licensee would have any responsibility for the financial 
obligation under a life settlement contract or purchase agreement.11. Use any combination of 
words, symbols, or physical materials that by the their content, phraseology, shape, color, or 
other characteristics are so similar to a combination of words, symbols, or physical materials 
used by a government program or agency that they tend to mislead or deceive prospective 
owners or purchasers into believing the advertisement is in some manner connected with a 
government program or agency.12. Exaggerate the fact that a licensee under this section is 
licensed in the state where the advertisement appears or suggest or imply that competing 
licensees may not be so licensed. An advertisement may ask the audience to consult the 
licensee's website or contact the office of the commissioner for licensing requirements and the 
status of a license.13. Create the impression, directly or indirectly, that a licensee; its business 
practices or methods of operation; the merits, desirability, or advisability of any life settlement 
contract or purchase agreement; or any life insurance company are recommended, approved, or 
endorsed by any government entity.14. Emphasize the speed with which the settlement will 
occur, except that the advertisement may disclose the average time from the completion of the 
application to the date of offer and from the acceptance of the offer to receipt of the settlement 
funds by the owner.15. Emphasize the dollar amounts available to an owner, except that the 
advertisement may disclose the average purchase price as a percent of the face value obtained by 
owners contracting with the licensee during the prior 6 months.(h) The name of the licensee shall 
be clearly identified in all advertisements about the licensee or its life settlement contracts, 
purchase agreements, products, or services. If any specific life settlement contract or purchase 
agreement of a licensee is advertised, the contract or agreement shall be identified either by form 
number or other appropriate description. If an application is part of the advertisement, the name 
of the provider shall be shown on the application.(15) FRAUD PREVENTION AND 
CONTROL; FRAUDULENT LIFE SETTLEMENT ACTS.(a) No person may commit a 
fraudulent life settlement act.(b) No person may knowingly or intentionally interfere with the 
enforcement of this subsection or sub. (13) or investigations of suspected or actual violations of 
this subsection or sub. (13).(c) No person in the business of life settlements may knowingly or 
intentionally permit any person convicted of a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust to 

participate in the business of life settlements.(d)1. Life settlement contracts, purchase 
agreements, and applications for life settlements, regardless of the form of transmission, shall 
contain the following statement or a substantially similar statement: "Any person who knowingly 
presents false information in an application for insurance, a life settlement, or a purchase 
agreement may be subject to civil and criminal penalties."2. A person may not use the lack of the 
statement required under subd. 1. as a defense to any prosecution for a violation of this 
subsection or sub. (13).(e)1. Any person engaged in the business of life settlements having 
knowledge or a reasonable belief that a violation of this subsection or sub. (13) is being, will be, 
or has been committed shall provide to the commissioner the information required by, and in a 
manner prescribed by, the commissioner.2. Any other person having knowledge or a reasonable 
belief that a violation of this subsection or sub. (13) is being, will be, or has been committed may 
provide to the commissioner the information required by, and in a manner prescribed by, the 
commissioner.(f)1. In the absence of actual malice, no civil liability shall be imposed on and no 
cause of action shall arise from a person's furnishing information concerning suspected, 
anticipated, or completed violations of this subsection or sub. (13) or suspected, anticipated, or 
completed fraudulent insurance acts, if the information is provided to or received from any of the 
following:a. The commissioner or the commissioner's employees, agents, or 
representatives.b. Federal, state, or local law enforcement or regulatory officials or their 
employees, agents, or representatives.c. A person involved in the prevention and detection of 
fraud or that person's agents, employees, or representatives.d. The National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the North American 
Securities Administrators Association, or their employees, agents, or representatives or other 
regulatory body overseeing life insurance, life settlements, securities, or investment fraud.e. The 
life insurer that issued the policy covering the life of the insured.2. This paragraph does not 
abrogate or modify common law or statutory privileges or immunities enjoyed by a person who 
supplies information concerning suspected, anticipated, or completed fraudulent acts related to 
life settlements or insurance.(g) Information, documents, and evidence provided under par. (e) or 
obtained by the commissioner in an investigation of suspected or actual violations of this 
subsection or sub. (13) shall be privileged and confidential, shall not be a public record, and shall 
not be subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action. The commissioner may 
release information, documents, and evidence provided under par. (e) or obtained in an 
investigation of suspected or actual violations of this subsection or sub. (13) in administrative or 
judicial proceedings to enforce laws administered by the commissioner, to federal, state, or local 
law enforcement or regulatory agencies, to an organization established for the purpose of 
detecting and preventing fraud related to life settlements, to the National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners, or, at the discretion of the commissioner, to a person in the business 
of life settlements that is aggrieved by a violation of this subsection or sub. (13). Release by the 
commissioner of information, documents, and evidence as set forth in this paragraph does not 
abrogate, modify, or waive the privilege established in this paragraph.(h) This section does not 
do any of the following:1. Preempt the authority or relieve the duty of law enforcement or 
regulatory agencies other than the commissioner to investigate, examine, and prosecute 
suspected violations of law.2. Prevent or prohibit a person from disclosing voluntarily 
information concerning life settlement fraud to a law enforcement or regulatory agency other 
than the commissioner.3. Limit the powers granted elsewhere by the laws of this state to the 
commissioner to investigate and examine possible violations of law and to take appropriate 
action.(i)1. Providers and brokers shall have in place antifraud initiatives reasonably calculated 

to detect, prosecute, and prevent violations of this subsection and sub. (13). The commissioner 
may modify the antifraud initiatives from time to time as necessary to ensure an effective 
antifraud program and to accomplish the purpose of this paragraph.2. Antifraud initiatives shall 
include having fraud investigators, who may be employees of the provider or broker or who may 
be independent contractors, and an antifraud plan, which the provider or broker shall submit to 
the commissioner and which shall include all of the following:a. A description of the procedures 
that the provider or broker will use for detecting and investigating possible fraud and violations 
of this subsection and sub. (13) and for resolving material inconsistencies between medical 
records and insurance applications.b. A description of the procedures that the provider or broker 
will use for reporting possible violations of this subsection and sub. (13) to the 
commissioner.c. A description of the plan that the provider or broker will follow for antifraud 
education and training of underwriters and other personnel.d. A description or chart outlining the 
organizational arrangement of the antifraud personnel who are responsible for investigating and 
reporting possible violations of this subsection and sub. (13) and investigating unresolved 
material inconsistencies between medical records and insurance applications.3. Antifraud plans 
submitted to the commissioner are privileged and confidential, are not a public record, and are 
not subject to discovery or subpoena in a civil or criminal action.(16) CONFLICTS OF LAW. If 
there is more than one owner on a single policy and the owners are residents of different states, a 
life settlement shall be governed by the law of the state in which the owner having the largest 
percentage ownership resides or, if the owners hold equal ownership, the state of residence of 
one owner agreed upon in writing by all owners.(17) FRATERNAL BENEFIT SOCIETIES. 
Nothing in this section shall prohibit a fraternal benefit society under ch. 614 from enforcing the 
terms of its bylaws or rules regarding permitted beneficiaries and owners.(18) CIVIL ACTION. 
Any person damaged by a violation of this section may bring a civil action against the person 
committing the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.(19) PENALTIES. Any person who 
violates this section is subject to the penalties provided under s. 601.64, suspension or revocation 
of a license or certificate of authority, and an order under s. 601.41.(20) POWERS OF 
COMMISSIONER. The commissioner may do any of the following:(a) Adopt rules 
implementing and administering this section.(b) Establish standards for evaluating the 
reasonableness of payments under life settlement contracts for persons who are terminally or 
chronically ill, including regulation of discount rates used to determine the amount paid in 
exchange for assignment, transfer, sale, devise, or bequest of a benefit under a policy insuring 
the life of a person who is terminally or chronically ill.(c) Establish appropriate licensing 
requirements and standards for continued licensure for providers and brokers.(d) Require a bond 
or other mechanism for financial accountability for providers and brokers.(e) Adopt rules 
governing the relationship and responsibilities of insurers, providers, and brokers during 
settlement of a policy. 
Wis. Stat.  632.69 
 
